There was an Old Man with a nose,
Who said, If you choose to suppose
That my nose is too long, you are certainly wrong!
That remarkable Man with a nose.


There was a Young Person of Smyrna,
Whose Grandmother threatened to burn her;
But she seized on the Cat, and said, Granny, burn that!
You incongruous Old Woman of Smyrna!



There was an Old Man on a hill,
Who seldom, if ever, stood still;
He ran up and down in his Grandmother's gown,
Which adorned that Old Man on a hill.



There was an Old Person of Chili,
Whose conduct was painful and silly;
He sate on the stairs, eating apples and pears,
That imprudent Old Person of Chili.



There was an Old Man with a gong,
Who bumped at it all the day long;
But they called out, Oh, law! you're a horrid old bore!
So they smashed that Old Man with a gong.



There was an Old Man of Kilkenny,
Who never had more than a penny;
He spent all that money in onions and honey,
That wayward Old Man of Kilkenny.



There was an Old Man of Columbia,
Who was thirsty, and called out for some beer;
But they brought it quite hot, in a small copper pot,
Which disgusted that man of Columbia.



There was an Old Man in a tree,
Who was horribly bored by a Bee;
When they said, Does it buzz? he replied, Yes, it does!
It's a regular brute of a Bee.



There was an Old Lady of Chertsey,
Who made a remarkable curtsey;
She twirled round and round, till she sank underground,
Which distressed all the people of Chertsey.



There was a Young Lady whose chin
Resembled the point of a pin;
So she had it made sharp, and purchased a harp,
And played several tunes with her chin.



There was an Old Man with a flute,--
A sarpint ran into his boot!
But he played day and night, till the sarpint took flight,
And avoided that Man with a flute.



There was a Young Lady of Portugal,
Whose ideas were excessively nautical;
She climbed up a tree to examine the sea,
But declared she would never leave Portugal.



There was an Old Person of Ischia,
Whose conduct grew friskier and friskier;
He danced hornpipes and jigs, and ate thousands of figs,
That lively Old Person of Ischia



There was an Old Man of Vienna,
Who lived upon Tincture of Senna;
When that did not agree, he took Camomile Tea,
That nasty Old Man of Vienna.

[Illustraion]

There was an Old Man in a boat,
Who said, I'm afloat! I'm afloat!
When they said, No, you ain't! he was ready to faint,
That unhappy Old Man in a boat.



There was an Old Person of Buda,
Whose conduct grew ruder and ruder,
Till at last with a hammer they silenced his clamor.
By smashing that Person of Buda.



There was an Old Man of Moldavia,
Who had the most curious behavior;
For while he was able, he slept on a table,
That funny Old Man of Moldavia.



There was an Old Person of Hurst,
Who drank when he was not athirst;
When they said, You'll grow fatter! he answered What matter?
That globular Person of Hurst.



There was an Old Man of Madras,
Who rode on a cream-colored Ass;
But the length of its ears so promoted his fears,
That it killed that Old Man of Madras.



There was an Old Person of Dover,
Who rushed through a field of blue clover;
But some very large Bees stung his nose and his knees,
So he very soon went back to Dover.



There was an Old Person of Leeds,
Whose head was infested with beads;
She sat on a stool and ate gooseberry-fool,
Which agreed with that Person of Leeds.



There was an Old Person of Cadiz,
Who was always polite to all ladies;
But in handing his daughter, he fell into the water,
Which drowned that Old Person of Cadiz.



There was an Old Man of the Isles,
Whose face was pervaded with smiles;
He sang High dum diddle, and played on the fiddle,
That amiable Man of the Isles.



There was an Old Person of Basing,
Whose presence of mind was amazing;
He purchased a steed, which he rode at full speed,
And escaped from the people of Basing.



There was an Old Man who supposed
That the street door was partially closed;
But some very large Rats ate his coats and his hats,
While that futile Old Gentleman dozed.



There was an Old Person whose habits
Induced him to feed upon Rabbits;
When he'd eaten eighteen, he turned perfectly green,
Upon which he relinquished those habits.



There was an Old Man of the West,
Who wore a pale plum-colored vest;
When they said, Does it fit? he replied, Not a bit!
That uneasy Old Man of the West.



There was an Old Man of Marseilles,
Whose daughters wore bottle-green veils:
They caught several Fish, which they put in a dish,
And sent to their Pa at Marseilles.



There was an Old Man of the Wrekin,
Whose shoes made a horrible creaking;
But they said, Tell us whether your shoes are of leather,
Or of what, you Old Man of the Wrekin?



There was a Young Lady whose nose
Was so long that it reached to her toes;
So she hired an Old Lady, whose conduct was steady,
To carry that wonderful nose.



There was a Young Lady of Norway,
Who casually sat in a doorway;
When the door squeezed her flat, she exclaimed, What of that?
This courageous Young Lady of Norway.



There was an Old Man of Apulia,
Whose conduct was very peculiar;
He fed twenty sons upon nothing but buns,
That whimsical Man of Apulia.



There was an Old Man of Quebec,--
A beetle ran over his neck;
But he cried, With a needle I'll slay you, O beadle!
That angry Old Man of Quebec.



There was a Young Lady of Bute,
Who played on a silver-gilt flute;
She played several jigs to her Uncle's white Pigs:
That amusing Young Lady of Bute.



There was an Old Person of Philoe,
Whose conduct was scroobious and wily;
He rushed up a Palm when the weather was calm,
And observed all the ruins of Philoe.



There was an Old Man with a poker,
Who painted his face with red ochre.
When they said, You 're a Guy! he made no reply,
But knocked them all down with his poker.



There was an Old Person of Prague,
Who was suddenly seized with the plague;
But they gave him some butter, which caused him to mutter,
And cured that Old Person of Prague.



There was an Old Man of Peru,
Who watched his wife making a stew;
But once, by mistake, in a stove she did bake
That unfortunate Man of Peru.



There was an Old Man of the North,
Who fell into a basin of broth;
But a laudable cook fished him out with a hook,
Which saved that Old Man of the North.



There was an Old Person of Troy,
Whose drink was warm brandy and soy,
Which he took with a spoon, by the light of the moon,
In sight of the city of Troy.



There was an Old Person of Mold,
Who shrank from sensations of cold;
So he purchased some muffs, some furs, and some fluffs,
And wrapped himself well from the cold.



There was an Old Person of Tring,
Who embellished his nose with a ring;
He gazed at the moon every evening in June,
That ecstatic Old Person of Tring.



There was an Old Man of Nepaul,
From his horse had a terrible fall;
But, though split quite in two, with some very strong glue
They mended that man of Nepaul.



There was an Old Man of the Nile,
Who sharpened his nails with a file,
Till he cut off his thumbs, and said calmly, This comes
Of sharpening one's nails with a file!



There was an Old Man of th' Abruzzi,
So blind that he couldn't his foot see;
When they said, That's your toe, he replied, Is it so?
That doubtful Old Man of th' Abruzzi.



There was an Old Man of Calcutta,
Who perpetually ate bread and butter;
Till a great bit of muffin, on which he was stuffing,
Choked that horrid Old Man of Calcutta.



There was an Old Person of Rhodes,
Who strongly objected to toads;
He paid several cousins to catch them by dozens,
That futile Old Person of Rhodes.



There was an Old Man of the South,
Who had an immoderate mouth;
But in swallowing a dish that was quite full of Fish,
He was choked, that Old Man of the South.



There was an Old Man of Melrose,
Who walked on the tips of his toes;
But they said, It ain't pleasant to see you at present,
You stupid Old Man of Melrose.



There was an Old Man of the Dee,
Who was sadly annoyed by a Flea;
When he said, I will scratch it! they gave him a hatchet,
Which grieved that Old Man of the Dee.



There was a Young Lady of Lucca,
Whose lovers completely forsook her;
She ran up a tree, and said Fiddle-de-dee!
Which embarrassed the people of Lucca.



There was an Old Man of Coblenz,
The length of whose legs was immense;
He went with one prance from Turkey to France,
That surprising Old Man of Coblenz.



There was an Old Man of Bohemia,
Whose daughter was christened Euphemia;
But one day, to his grief, she married a thief,
Which grieved that Old Man of Bohemia.



There was an Old Man of Corfu,
Who never knew what he should do;
So he rushed up and down, till the sun made him brown,
That bewildered Old Man of Corfu.



There was an Old Man of Vesuvius,
Who studied the works of Vitruvius;
When the flames burnt his book, to drinking he took,
That morbid Old Man of Vesuvius.



There was an Old Man of Dundee,
Who frequented the top of a tree;
When disturbed by the Crows, he abruptly arose,
And exclaimed, I'll return to Dundee!



There was an Old Lady whose folly
Induced her to sit in a holly;
Whereon, by a thorn her dress being torn,
She quickly became melancholy.



There was an Old Man on some rocks,
Who shut his Wife up in a box:
When she said, Let me out, he exclaimed, Without doubt
You will pass all your life in that box.



There was an Old Person of Rheims,
Who was troubled with horrible dreams;
So to keep him awake they fed him with cake,
Which amused that Old Person of Rheims.



There was an Old Man of Leghorn,
The smallest that ever was born;
But quickly snapt up he was once by a Puppy,
Who devoured that Old Man of Leghorn.



There was an Old Man in a pew,
Whose waistcoat was spotted with blue;
But he tore it in pieces, to give to his Nieces,
That cheerful Old Man in a pew.



There was an Old Man of Jamaica,
Who suddenly married a Quaker;
But she cried out, Oh, lack! I have married a black!
Which distressed that Old Man of Jamaica.



There was an Old Man who said, How
Shall I flee from this horrible Cow?
I will sit on this stile, and continue to smile,
Which may soften the heart of that Cow.



There was a Young Lady of Troy,
Whom several large flies did annoy;
Some she killed with a thump, some she drowned at the pump,
And some she took with her to Troy.



There was a Young Lady of Hull,
Who was chased by a virulent Bull;
But she seized on a spade, and called out, Who's afraid?
Which distracted that virulent Bull.



There was an Old Person of Dutton,
Whose head was as small as a button;
So to make it look big he purchased a wig,
And rapidly rushed about Dutton.



There was an Old Man who said, Hush!
I perceive a young bird in this bush!
When they said, Is it small? he replied, Not at all;
It is four times as big as the bush!



There was a Young Lady of Russia,
Who screamed so that no one could hush her;
Her screams were extreme,--no one heard such a scream
As was screamed by that Lady of Russia.



There was a Young Lady of Tyre,
Who swept the loud chords of a lyre;
At the sound of each sweep she enraptured the deep,
And enchanted the city of Tyre.



There was an Old Person of Bangor,
Whose face was distorted with anger;
He tore off his boots, and subsisted on roots,
That borascible Person of Bangor.



There was an Old Man of the East,
Who gave all his children a feast;
But they all ate so much, and their conduct was such,
That it killed that Old Man of the East.



There was an Old Man of the Coast,
Who placidly sat on a post;
But when it was cold he relinquished his hold,
And called for some hot buttered toast.



There was an Old Man of Kamschatka,
Who possessed a remarkably fat Cur;
His gait and his waddle were held as a model
To all the fat dogs in Kamschatka.



There was an Old Person of Gretna,
Who rushed down the crater of Etna;
When they said, Is it hot? he replied, No, it's not!
That mendacious Old Person of Gretna.



There was an Old Man with a beard,
Who sat on a Horse when he reared;
But they said, Never mind! you will fall off behind,
You propitious Old Man with a beard!



There was an Old Man of Berlin,
Whose form was uncommonly thin;
Till he once, by mistake, was mixed up in a cake,
So they baked that Old Man of Berlin.



There was an Old Man of the West,
Who never could get any rest;
So they set him to spin on his nose and his chin,
Which cured that Old Man of the West.



There was an Old Person of Cheadle
Was put in the stocks by the Beadle
For stealing some pigs, some coats, and some wigs,
That horrible person of Cheadle.



There was an Old Person of Anerley,
Whose conduct was strange and unmannerly;
He rushed down the Strand with a Pig in each hand,
But returned in the evening to Anerley.



There was a Young Lady of Wales,
Who caught a large Fish without scales;
When she lifted her hook, she exclaimed, Only look!
That ecstatic Young Lady of Wales.



There was a Young Lady of Welling,
Whose praise all the world was a-telling;
She played on the harp, and caught several Carp,
That accomplished Young Lady of Welling.



There was an Old Person of Tartary,
Who divided his jugular artery;
But he screeched to his Wife, and she said, Oh, my life!
Your death will be felt by all Tartary!



There was an Old Man of Whitehaven,
Who danced a quadrille with a Raven;
But they said, It's absurd to encourage this bird!
So they smashed that Old Man of Whitehaven.



There was a Young Lady of Sweden,
Who went by the slow train to Weedon;
When they cried, Weedon Station! she made no observation,
But thought she should go back to Sweden.



There was an Old Person of Chester,
Whom several small children did pester;
They threw some large stones, which broke most of his bones,
And displeased that Old Person of Chester.



There was an Old Man of the Cape,
Who possessed a large Barbary Ape;
Till the Ape, one dark night, set the house all alight,
Which burned that Old Man of the Cape.



There was an Old Person of Burton,
Whose answers were rather uncertain;
When they said, How d' ye do? he replied, Who are you?
That distressing Old Person of Burton.



There was an Old Person of Ems
Who casually fell in the Thames;
And when he was found, they said he was drowned,
That unlucky Old Person of Ems.



There was a Young Girl of Majorca,
Whose Aunt was a very fast walker;
She walked seventy miles, and leaped fifteen stiles,
Which astonished that Girl of Majorca.



There was a Young Lady of Poole,
Whose soup was excessively cool;
So she put it to boil by the aid of some oil,
That ingenious Young Lady of Poole.


There was an Old Person of Sparta,
Who had twenty-five sons and one darter;
He fed them on Snails, and weighed them in scales,
That wonderful Person of Sparta.



There was an Old Man on whose nose
Most birds of the air could repose;
But they all flew away at the closing of day,
Which relieved that Old Man and his nose.



There was a Young Lady of Turkey,
Who wept when the weather was murky;
When the day turned out fine, she ceased to repine,
That capricious Young Lady of Turkey.



There was an Old Man of Aôsta
Who possessed a large Cow, but he lost her;
But they said, Don't you see she has run up a tree,
You invidious Old Man of Aôsta?



There was a Young Person of Crete,
Whose toilette was far from complete;
She dressed in a sack spickle-speckled with black,
That ombliferous Person of Crete.



There was a Young Lady of Clare,
Who was madly pursued by a Bear;
When she found she was tired, she abruptly expired,
That unfortunate Lady of Clare.



There was a Young Lady of Dorking,
Who bought a large bonnet for walking;
But its color and size so bedazzled her eyes,
That she very soon went back to Dorking.



There was an Old Man of Cape Horn,
Who wished he had never been born;
So he sat on a Chair till he died of despair,
That dolorous Man of Cape Horn.



There was an old Person of Cromer,
Who stood on one leg to read Homer;
When he found he grew stiff, he jumped over the cliff,
Which concluded that Person of Cromer.



There was an Old Man of the Hague,
Whose ideas were excessively vague;
He built a balloon to examine the moon,
That deluded Old Man of the Hague.



There was an Old Person of Spain,
Who hated all trouble and pain;
So he sate on a chair with his feet in the air,
That umbrageous Old Person of Spain.

There was an Old Man who said, Well!
Will _nobody_ answer this bell?
I have pulled day and night, till my hair has grown white,
But nobody answers this bell!


There was an Old Man of Peru.
Who never knew what he should do;
So he tore off his hair, and behaved like a bear,
That intrinsic Old Man of Peru.



There was an Old Man with a beard,
Who said, It is just as I feared!--
Two Owls and a Hen, four Larks and a Wren,
Have all built their nests in my beard.



There was a Young Lady whose eyes
Were unique as to color and size;
When she opened them wide, people all turned aside,
And started away in surprise.



There was a Young Lady of Ryde,
Whose shoe-strings were seldom untied;
She purchased some clogs, and some small spotty Dogs,
And frequently walked about Ryde.



There was a Young Lady whose bonnet
Came untied when the birds sate upon it;
But she said, I don't care! all the birds in the air
Are welcome to sit on my bonnet!

    When awful darkness and silence reign
    Over the great Gromboolian plain,
        Through the long, long wintry nights;
    When the angry breakers roar
    As they beat on the rocky shore;
        When Storm-clouds brood on the towering heights
    Of the Hills of the Chankly Bore,--

    Then, through the vast and gloomy dark
    There moves what seems a fiery spark,--
        A lonely spark with silvery rays
        Piercing the coal-black night,--
        A Meteor strange and bright:
    Hither and thither the vision strays,
        A single lurid light.

    Slowly it wanders, pauses, creeps,--
    Anon it sparkles, flashes, and leaps;
    And ever as onward it gleaming goes
    A light on the Bong-tree stems it throws.
    And those who watch at that midnight hour
    From Hall or Terrace or lofty Tower,
    Cry, as the wild light passes along,--
       The Dong! the Dong!
      The wandering Dong through the forest goes!
        The Dong! the Dong!
      The Dong with a luminous Nose!

        Long years ago
      The Dong was happy and gay,
    Till he fell in love with a Jumbly Girl
      Who came to those shores one day.
    For the Jumblies came in a sieve, they did,--
    Landing at eve near the Zemmery Fidd
        Where the Oblong Oysters grow,
      And the rocks are smooth and gray.
    And all the woods and the valleys rang
    With the Chorus they daily and nightly sang,--
        _Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
          Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve._

    Happily, happily passed those days!
      While the cheerful Jumblies staid;
        They danced in circlets all night long,
        To the plaintive pipe of the lively Dong,
      In moonlight, shine, or shade.
    For day and night he was always there
    By the side of the Jumbly Girl so fair,
    With her sky-blue hands and her sea-green hair;
    Till the morning came of that hateful day
    When the Jumblies sailed in their sieve away,
    And the Dong was left on the cruel shore
    Gazing, gazing for evermore,--
    Ever keeping his weary eyes on
    That pea-green sail on the far horizon,--
    Singing the Jumbly Chorus still
    As he sate all day on the grassy hill,--
        _Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
          Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve_.



    Of vast proportions and painted red,
    And tied with cords to the back of his head.
        In a hollow rounded space it ended
        With a luminous Lamp within suspended,
            All fenced about
            With a bandage stout
            To prevent the wind from blowing it out;
        And with holes all round to send the light
        In gleaming rays on the dismal night

    And now each night, and all night long,
    Over those plains still roams the Dong;
    And above the wail of the Chimp and Snipe
    You may hear the squeak of his plaintive pipe,
    While ever he seeks, but seeks in vain,
    To meet with his Jumbly Girl again;
    Lonely and wild, all night he goes,--
    The Dong with a luminous Nose!
    And all who watch at the midnight hour,
    From Hall or Terrace or lofty Tower,
    Cry, as they trace the Meteor bright,
    Moving along through the dreary night,--
       This is the hour when forth he goes,
        The Dong with a luminous Nose!
        Yonder, over the plain he goes,--
            He goes!
            He goes,--
        The Dong with a luminous Nose!

Two old Bachelors were living in one house;
One caught a Muffin, the other caught a Mouse.
Said he who caught the Muffin to him who caught the Mouse,--
This happens just in time! For we've nothing in the house,
Save a tiny slice of lemon and a teaspoonful of honey,
And what to do for dinner--since we haven't any money?
And what can we expect if we haven't any dinner,
But to lose our teeth and eyelashes and keep on growing thinner?

Said he who caught the Mouse to him who caught the Muffin,--
We might cook this little Mouse, if we only had some Stuffin'!
If we had but Sage and Onion we could do extremely well;
But how to get that Stuffin' it is difficult to tell!

Those two old Bachelors ran quickly to the town
And asked for Sage and Onion as they wandered up and down;
They borrowed two large Onions, but no Sage was to be found
In the Shops, or in the Market, or in all the Gardens round.

But some one said, A hill there is, a little to the north,
And to its purpledicular top a narrow way leads forth;
And there among the rugged rocks abides an ancient Sage,--
An earnest Man, who reads all day a most perplexing page.
Climb up, and seize him by the toes,--all studious as he sits,--
And pull him down, and chop him into endless little bits!
Then mix him with your Onion cut up likewise into Scraps,--
When your Stuffin' will be ready, and very good--perhaps.

Those two old Bachelors without loss of time
The nearly purpledicular crags at once began to climb;
And at the top, among the rocks, all seated in a nook,
They saw that Sage a-reading of a most enormous book.

You earnest Sage! aloud they cried, your book you've read enough in!
We wish to chop you into bits to mix you into Stuffin'!

But that old Sage looked calmly up, and with his awful book,
At those two Bachelors' bald heads a certain aim he took;
And over Crag and precipice they rolled promiscuous down,--
At once they rolled, and never stopped in lane or field or town;
And when they reached their house, they found besides their want
                                                          of Stuffin',
The Mouse had fled--and, previously, had eaten up the Muffin.

They left their home in silence by the once convivial door;
And from that hour those Bachelors were never heard of more.

    King and Queen of the Pelicans we;
     No other Birds so grand we see!
    None but we have feet like fins!
    With lovely leathery throats and chins!
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican Jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still

    We live on the Nile. The Nile we love.
    By night we sleep on the cliffs above;
    By day we fish, and at eve we stand
    On long bare islands of yellow sand.
    And when the sun sinks slowly down,
    And the great rock walls grow dark and brown,

    Where the purple river rolls fast and dim
    And the Ivory Ibis starlike skim,
    Wing to wing we dance around,
    Stamping our feet with a flumpy sound,
    Opening our mouths as Pelicans ought;
    And this is the song we nightly snort,--
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    Last year came out our Daughter Dell,
    And all the Birds received her well.
    To do her honor a feast we made
    For every bird that can swim or wade,--
    Herons and Gulls, and Cormorants black,
    Cranes, and Flamingoes with scarlet back,
    Plovers and Storks, and Geese in clouds,
    Swans and Dilberry Ducks in crowds:
    Thousands of Birds in wondrous flight!
    They ate and drank and danced all night,
    And echoing back from the rocks you heard
    Multitude-echoes from Bird and Bird,--
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    Yes, they came; and among the rest
    The King of the Cranes all grandly dressed.
    Such a lovely tail! Its feathers float
    Between the ends of his blue dress-coat;
    With pea-green trowsers all so neat,
    And a delicate frill to hide his feet
    For though no one speaks of it, every one knows
    He has got no webs between his toes.

    As soon as he saw our Daughter Dell,
    In violent love that Crane King fell,--
    On seeing her waddling form so fair,
    With a wreath of shrimps in her short white hair.
    And before the end of the next long day
    Our Dell had given her heart away;
    For the King of the Cranes had won that heart
    With a Crocodile's egg and a large fish-tart.
    She vowed to marry the King of the Cranes,
    Leaving the Nile for stranger plains;
    And away they flew in a gathering crowd
    Of endless birds in a lengthening cloud.
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!



    On the Coast of Coromandel
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          In the middle of the woods
      Lived the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
    Two old chairs, and half a candle,
    One old jug without a handle,--
          These were all his worldly goods:
          In the middle of the woods,
          These were all the worldly goods
      Of the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
      Of the Yonghy-Bonghy Bò.

    Once, among the Bong-trees walking
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          To a little heap of stones
      Came the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
    There he heard a Lady talking,
    To some milk-white Hens of Dorking,--
        'Tis the Lady Jingly Jones!
          On that little heap of stones
          Sits the Lady Jingly Jones!
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.

   Lady Jingly! Lady Jingly!
         Sitting where the pumpkins blow,
           Will you come and be my wife?
       Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
   I am tired of living singly--
    On this coast so wild and shingly,--
          I'm a-weary of my life;
          If you'll come and be my wife,
          Quite serene would be my life!
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.

    On this Coast of Coromandel
         Shrimps and watercresses grow,
           Prawns are plentiful and cheap,
       Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
   You shall have my chairs and candle,
    And my jug without a handle!
          Gaze upon the rolling deep
         Fish is plentiful and cheap;
          As the sea, my love is deep!
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.

    Lady Jingly answered sadly,
         And her tears began to flow,--
          Your proposal comes too late,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!
    I would be your wife most gladly!
    Here she twirled her fingers madly,
         But in England I've a mate!
          Yes! you've asked me far too late,
          For in England I've a mate,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!

   Mr. Jones his name is Handel,--
         Handel Jones, Esquire, & Co.
           Dorking fowls delights to send,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!
    Keep, oh, keep your chairs and candle,
    And your jug without a handle,--
          I can merely be your friend!
          Should my Jones more Dorkings send,
          I will give you three, my friend!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bongy-Bò!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!

   Though you've such a tiny body,
         And your head so large doth grow,--
           Though your hat may blow away,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!
    Though you're such a Hoddy Doddy,
    Yet I wish that I could modi-
          fy the words I needs must say!
          Will you please to go away?
          That is all I have to say,
      Mr. Yongby-Bonghy-Bò!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò!

    Down the slippery slopes of Myrtle,
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          To the calm and silent sea
       Fled the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
    There, beyond the Bay of Gurtle,
    Lay a large and lively Turtle.
         You're the Cove, he said, for me;
          On your back beyond the sea,
          Turtle, you shall carry me!
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.

    Through the silent-roaring ocean
        Did the Turtle swiftly go;
          Holding fast upon his shell
      Rode the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
    With a sad primaeval motion
    Towards the sunset isles of Boshen
          Still the Turtle bore him well.
          Holding fast upon his shell,
         Lady Jingly Jones, farewell!
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.

    From the Coast of Coromandel
        Did that Lady never go;
          On that heap of stones she mourns
      For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.
    On that Coast of Coromandel,
    In his jug without a handle
        Still she weeps, and daily moans;
        On that little heap of stones
        To her Dorking Hens she moans,
          For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò,
          For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bò.


    The Pobble who has no toes
        Had once as many as we;
    When they said, Some day you may lose them all;
        He replied, Fish fiddle de-dee!
    And his Aunt Jobiska made him drink
    Lavender water tinged with pink;
    For she said, The World in general knows
    There's nothing so good for a Pobble's toes!

    The Pobble who has no toes,
        Swam across the Bristol Channel;
    But before he set out he wrapped his nose
        In a piece of scarlet flannel.
    For his Aunt Jobiska said, No harm
    Can come to his toes if his nose is warm;
    And it's perfectly known that a Pobble's toes
    Are safe--provided he minds his nose.

    The Pobble swam fast and well,
        And when boats or ships came near him,
    He tinkledy-binkledy-winkled a bell
        So that all the world could hear him.
    And all the Sailors and Admirals cried,
    When they saw him nearing the further side,--
   He has gone to fish, for his Aunt Jobiska's
    Runcible Cat with crimson whiskers!

    But before he touched the shore,--
        The shore of the Bristol Channel,
    A sea-green Porpoise carried away
        His wrapper of scarlet flannel.
    And when he came to observe his feet,
    Formerly garnished with toes so neat,
    His face at once became forlorn
    On perceiving that all his toes were gone!

    And nobody ever knew,
        From that dark day to the present,
    Whoso had taken the Pobble's toes,
        In a manner so far from pleasant.
    Whether the shrimps or crawfish gray,
    Or crafty Mermaids stole them away,
    Nobody knew; and nobody knows
    How the Pobble was robbed of his twice five toes!

    The Pobble who has no toes
        Was placed in a friendly Bark,
    And they rowed him back, and carried him up
        To his Aunt Jobiska's Park.
    And she made him a feast, at his earnest wish,
    Of eggs and buttercups fried with fish;
    And she said, It's a fact the whole world knows,
    That Pobbles are happier without their toes.


    He had walked a short way, when he heard a great noise,
    Of all sorts of Beasticles, Birdlings, and Boys;
    And from every long street and dark lane in the town
    Beasts, Birdies, and Boys in a tumult rushed down.
    Two Cows and a Calf ate his Cabbage-leaf Cloak;
    Four Apes seized his Girdle, which vanished like smoke;
    Three Kids ate up half of his Pancaky Coat,
    And the tails were devour'd by an ancient He Goat;
    An army of Dogs in a twinkling tore _up_ his
    Pork Waistcoat and Trowsers to give to their Puppies;
    And while they were growling, and mumbling the Chops,
    Ten Boys prigged the Jujubes and Chocolate Drops.
    He tried to run back to his house, but in vain,
    For scores of fat Pigs came again and again:
    They rushed out of stables and hovels and doors;
    They tore off his stockings, his shoes, and his drawers;
    And now from the housetops with screechings descend
    Striped, spotted, white, black, and gray Cats without end:
    They jumped on his shoulders and knocked off his hat,
    When Crows, Ducks, and Hens made a mincemeat of that;
    They speedily flew at his sleeves in a trice,
    And utterly tore up his Shirt of dead Mice;
    They swallowed the last of his Shirt with a squall,--
    Whereon he ran home with no clothes on at all.

    And he said to himself, as he bolted the door,
   I will not wear a similar dress any more,
    Any more, any more, any more, never more!

    Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos
        Climbed to the top of a wall.
      And they sate to watch the sunset sky,
      And to hear the Nupiter Piffkin cry,
        And the Biscuit Buffalo call.
    They took up a roll and some Camomile tea,
    And both were as happy as happy could be,
            Till Mrs. Discobbolos said,--
           Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            It has just come into my head,
      Suppose we should happen to fall!!!!!
                        Darling Mr. Discobbolos!

   Suppose we should fall down flumpetty,
        Just like pieces of stone,
      On to the thorns, or into the moat,
      What would become of your new green coat?
        And might you not break a bone?
    It never occurred to me before,
    That perhaps we shall never go down any more!
            And Mrs. Discobbolos said,
           Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            What put it into your head
      To climb up this wall, my own
                        Darling Mr. Discobbolos?

    Mr. Discobbolos answered,
       At first it gave me pain,
      And I felt my ears turn perfectly pink
      When your exclamation made me think
        We might never get down again!
    But now I believe it is wiser far
    To remain for ever just where we are.
            And Mr. Discobbolos said,
           Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            It has just come into my head
      We shall never go down again,
                        Dearest Mrs. Discobbolos!

    So Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos
        Stood up and began to sing,--
     Far away from hurry and strife
      Here we will pass the rest of life,
        Ding a dong, ding dong, ding!
    We want no knives nor forks nor chairs,
    No tables nor carpets nor household cares;
            From worry of life we've fled;
            Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            There is no more trouble ahead,
      Sorrow or any such thing,
                        For Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos!

    On the top of the Crumpetty Tree
        The Quangle Wangle sat,
    But his face you could not see,
        On account of his Beaver Hat.
    For his Hat was a hundred and two feet wide,
    With ribbons and bibbons on every side,
    And bells, and buttons, and loops, and lace,
    So that nobody ever could see the face
            Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.

    The Quangle Wangle said
        To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
    Jam, and jelly, and bread
        Are the best of food for me!
    But the longer I live on this Crumpetty Tree
    The plainer than ever it seems to me
    That very few people come this way
    And that life on the whole is far from gay!
            Said the Quangle Wangle Quee.

    But there came to the Crumpetty Tree
        Mr. and Mrs. Canary;
    And they said, Did ever you see
        Any spot so charmingly airy?
    May we build a nest on your lovely Hat?
    Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
    O please let us come and build a nest
    Of whatever material suits you best,
            Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!

    And besides, to the Crumpetty Tree
        Came the Stork, the Duck, and the Owl;
    The Snail and the Bumble-Bee,
        The Frog and the Fimble Fowl
    The Fimble Fowl, with a Corkscrew leg;
    And all of them said, We humbly beg
    We may build our homes on your lovely Hat,--
    Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
       Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!

    And the Golden Grouse came there,
        And the Pobble who has no toes,
    And the small Olympian bear,
        And the Dong with a luminous nose.
    And the Blue Baboon who played the flute,
    And the Orient Calf from the Land of Tute,
    And the Attery Squash, and the Bisky Bat,--
    All came and built on the lovely Hat
      Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.

    And the Quangle Wangle said
        To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
    When all these creatures move
        What a wonderful noise there'll be!
    And at night by the light of the Mulberry moon
    They danced to the Flute of the Blue Baboon,
    On the broad green leaves of the Crumpetty Tree,
    And all were as happy as happy could be,
      With the Quangle Wangle Quee.

She sate upon her Dobie,
    To watch the Evening Star,
And all the Punkahs, as they passed,
    Cried, My! how fair you are!
Around her bower, with quivering leaves,
    The tall Kamsamahs grew,
And Kitmutgars in wild festoons
    Hung down from Tchokis blue.

Below her home the river rolled
    With soft meloobious sound,
Where golden-finned Chuprassies swam,
    In myriads circling round.
Above, on tallest trees remote
    Green Ayahs perched alone,
And all night long the Mussak moan'd
    Its melancholy tone.

And where the purple Nullahs threw
    Their branches far and wide,
And silvery Goreewallahs flew
    In silence, side by side,
The little Bheesties' twittering cry
    Rose on the flagrant air,
And oft the angry Jampan howled
    Deep in his hateful lair.

She sate upon her Dobie,
    She heard the Nimmak hum,
When all at once a cry arose,
    The Cummerbund is come!
In vain she fled: with open jaws
    The angry monster followed,
And so before assistance came
    That Lady Fair was swollowed.


They sought in vain for even a bone
    Respectfully to bury;
They said, Hers was a dreadful fate!
    And Echo answered, Very.
They nailed her Dobie to the wall,
    Where last her form was seen,
And underneath they wrote these words,
    In yellow, blue, and green:
Beware, ye Fair! Ye Fair, beware!
    Nor sit out late at night,
Lest horrid Cummerbunds should come,
    And swollow you outright.


    Who, or why, or which, or _what_, Is the Akond of SWAT?
    Is he tall or short, or dark or fair?
    Does he sit on a stool or a sofa or chair,             or SQUAT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Is he wise or foolish, young or old?
    Does he drink his soup and his coffee cold,             or HOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he sing or whistle, jabber or talk,
    And when riding abroad does he gallop or walk,          or TROT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he wear a turban, a fez, or a hat?
    Does he sleep on a mattress, a bed, or a mat,          or a COT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    When he writes a copy in round-hand size,
    Does he cross his T's and finish his I's              with a DOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Can he write a letter concisely clear
    Without a speck or a smudge or smear                    or BLOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Do his people like him extremely well?
    Or do they, whenever they can, rebel,                   or PLOT,
                                                    At the Akond of Swat?

    If he catches them then, either old or young,
    Does he have them chopped in pieces or hung,            or _shot_,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Do his people prig in the lanes or park?
    Or even at times, when days are dark,                   GAROTTE?
                                                     O the Akond of Swat!

    Does he study the wants of his own dominion?
    Or doesn't he care for public opinion                    a JOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    To amuse his mind do his people show him
    Pictures, or any one's last new poem,                    or WHAT,
                                                   For the Akond of Swat?

    At night if he suddenly screams and wakes,
    Do they bring him only a few small cakes,               or a LOT,
                                                   For the Akond of Swat?

    Does he live on turnips, tea, or tripe?
    Does he like his shawl to be marked with a stripe,      or a DOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like to lie on his back in a boat
    Like the lady who lived in that isle remote,            SHALLOTT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Is he quiet, or always making a fuss?
    Is his steward a Swiss or a Swede or a Russ,           or a SCOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like to sit by the calm blue wave?
    Or to sleep and snore in a dark green cave,            or a GROTT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he drink small beer from a silver jug?
    Or a bowl? or a glass? or a cup? or a mug?              or a POT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he beat his wife with a gold-topped pipe,
    When she lets the gooseberries grow too ripe,            or ROT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he wear a white tie when he dines with friends,
    And tie it neat in a bow with ends,                    or a KNOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like new cream, and hate mince-pies?
    When he looks at the sun does he wink his eyes,          or NOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he teach his subjects to roast and bake?
    Does he sail about on an inland lake,                  in a YACHT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Some one, or nobody, knows I wot
    Who or which or why or what
                                                    Is the Akond of Swat!

    A was an Area Arch
        Where washerwomen sat;
    They made a lot of lovely starch
        To starch Papa's Cravat.

    B was a Bottle blue,
        Which was not very small;
    Papa he filled it full of beer,
        And then he drank it all.


    C was Papa's gray Cat,
        Who caught a squeaky Mouse;
    She pulled him by his twirly tail
        All about the house.


    D was Papa's white Duck,
        Who had a curly tail;
    One day it ate a great fat frog,
        Besides a leetle snail.


    E was a little Egg,
        Upon the breakfast table;
    Papa came in and ate it up
        As fast as he was able.


    F was a little Fish.
        Cook in the river took it
    Papa said, Cook! Cook! bring a dish!
        And, Cook! be quick and cook it!

    G was Papa's new Gun;
        He put it in a box;
    And then he went and bought a bun,
        And walked about the Docks.


    H was Papa's new Hat;
        He wore it on his head;
    Outside it was completely black,
        But inside it was red.


    I was an Inkstand new,
        Papa he likes to use it;
    He keeps it in his pocket now,
        For fear that he should lose it.

    J was some Apple Jam,
        Of which Papa ate part;
    But all the rest he took away
        And stuffed into a tart.

    K was a great new Kite;
        Papa he saw it fly
    Above a thousand chimney pots,
        And all about the sky.


    L was a fine new Lamp;
        But when the wick was lit,
    Papa he said, This Light ain't good!
        I cannot read a bit!


    M was a dish of mince;
        It looked so good to eat!
    Papa, he quickly ate it up,
        And said, This is a treat!


    N was a Nut that grew
        High up upon a tree;
    Papa, who could not reach it, said,
        That's _much_ too high for me!

    O was an Owl who flew
        All in the dark away,
    Papa said, What an owl you are!
        Why don't you fly by day?

    P was a little Pig,
        Went out to take a walk;
    Papa he said, If Piggy dead,
        He'd all turn into Pork!

    Q was a Quince that hung
        Upon a garden tree;
    Papa he brought it with him home,
        And ate it with his tea.

    R was a Railway Rug
        Extremely large and warm;
    Papa he wrapped it round his head,
        In a most dreadful storm.

    S was Papa's new Stick,
        Papa's new thumping Stick,
    To thump extremely wicked boys,
        Because it was so thick.

    T was a tumbler full
        Of Punch all hot and good;
    Papa he drank it up, when in
        The middle of a wood.

    U was a silver urn,
        Full of hot scalding water;
    Papa said, If that Urn were mine,
        I'd give it to my daughter!

    V was a Villain; once
        He stole a piece of beef.
    Papa he said, Oh, dreadful man!
        That Villain is a Thief!

    W was a Watch of Gold:
        It told the time of day,
    So that Papa knew when to come,
        And when to go away.

    X was King Xerxes, whom
        Papa much wished to know;
    But this he could not do, because
        Xerxes died long ago.

    Y was a Youth, who kicked
        And screamed and cried like mad;
    Papa he said, Your conduct is
        Abominably bad!

    Z was a Zebra striped
        And streaked with lines of black;
    Papa said once, he thought he'd like
        A ride upon his back.
        
          There was a young person of Bantry,
    Who frequently slept in the pantry;
    When disturbed by the mice, she appeased them with rice,
    That judicious young person of Bantry.



    There was an Old Man at a Junction,
    Whose feelings were wrung with compunction
    When they said, The Train's gone! he exclaimed, How forlorn!
    But remained on the rails of the Junction.



    There was an old person of Minety,
    Who purchased five hundred and ninety
    Large apples and pears, which he threw unawares
    At the heads of the people of Minety.



    There was an old man of Thermopylae,
    Who never did anything properly;
    But they said, If you choose to boil eggs in your shoes,
    You shall never remain in Thermopylae.



    There was an old person of Deal,
    Who in walking used only his heel;
    When they said, Tell us why? he made no reply,
    That mysterious old person of Deal.



    There was an old man on the Humber,
    Who dined on a cake of Burnt Umber;
    When he said, It's enough! they only said, Stuff!
    You amazing old man on the Humber!



    There was an old man in a barge,
    Whose nose was exceedingly large;
    But in fishing by night, it supported a light,
    Which helped that old man in a barge.



    There was an old man of Dunrose;
    A parrot seized hold of his nose.
    When he grew melancholy, they said, His name's Polly,
    Which soothed that old man of Dunrose.



    There was an old man of Toulouse
    Who purchased a new pair of shoes;
    When they asked, Are they pleasant? he said, Not at present!
    That turbid old man of Toulouse.



    There was an old person of Bree,
    Who frequented the depths of the sea;
    She nurs'd the small fishes, and washed all the dishes,
    And swam back again into Bree.



    There was an old person of Bromley,
    Whose ways were not cheerful or comely;
    He sate in the dust, eating spiders and crust,
    That unpleasing old person of Bromley.



    There was an old person of Shields,
    Who frequented the vallies and fields;
    All the mice and the cats, and the snakes and the rats,
    Followed after that person of Shields.



    There was an old man of Dunluce,
    Who went out to sea on a goose:
    When he'd gone out a mile, he observ'd with a smile,
    It is time to return to Dunluce.



    There was an old man of Dee-side
    Whose hat was exceedingly wide,
    But he said, Do not fail, if it happen to hail,
    To come under my hat at Dee-side!



    There was an old person in black,
    A Grasshopper jumped on his back;
    When it chirped in his ear, he was smitten with fear,
    That helpless old person in black.



    There was an old man of the Dargle
    Who purchased six barrels of Gargle;
    For he said, I'll sit still, and will roll them down hill,
    For the fish in the depths of the Dargle.



    There was an old person of Pinner,
    As thin as a lath, if not thinner;
    They dressed him in white, and roll'd him up tight,
    That elastic old person of Pinner.



    There was an old person of China,
    Whose daughters were Jiska and Dinah,
    Amelia and Fluffy, Olivia and Chuffy,
    And all of them settled in China.



    There was an old man in a Marsh,
    Whose manners were futile and harsh;
    He sate on a log, and sang songs to a frog,
    That instructive old man in a Marsh.



    There was an old person of Brill,
    Who purchased a shirt with a frill;
    But they said, Don't you wish, you mayn't look like a fish,
    You obsequious old person of Brill?



    There was an old person of Wick,
    Who said, Tick-a-Tick, Tick-a-Tick;
    Chickabee, Chickabaw. And he said nothing more,
    That laconic old person of Wick.



    There was an old man at a Station,
    Who made a promiscuous oration;
    But they said, Take some snuff!--You have talk'd quite enough,
    You afflicting old man at a Station!



    There was an old man of Three Bridges,
    Whose mind was distracted by midges,
    He sate on a wheel, eating underdone veal,
    Which relieved that old man of Three Bridges.



    There was an old man of Hong Kong,
    Who never did anything wrong;
    He lay on his back, with his head in a sack,
    That innocuous old man of Hong Kong.



    There was a young person in green,
    Who seldom was fit to be seen;
    She wore a long shawl, over bonnet and all,
    Which enveloped that person in green.



    There was an old person of Fife,
    Who was greatly disgusted with life;
    They sang him a ballad, and fed him on salad,
    Which cured that old person of Fife.



    There was an old man who screamed out
    Whenever they knocked him about:
    So they took off his boots, and fed him with fruits,
    And continued to knock him about.



    There was a young lady in white,
    Who looked out at the depths of the night;
    But the birds of the air, filled her heart with despair,
    And oppressed that young lady in white.



    There was an old person of Slough,
    Who danced at the end of a bough;
    But they said, If you sneeze, you might damage the trees,
    You imprudent old person of Slough.



    There was an old person of Down,
    Whose face was adorned with a frown;
    When he opened the door, for one minute or more,
    He alarmed all the people of Down.



    There was a young person in red,
    Who carefully covered her head,
    With a bonnet of leather, and three lines of feather,
    Besides some long ribands of red.



    There was an old person of Hove,
    Who frequented the depths of a grove;
    Where he studied his books, with the wrens and the rooks,
    That tranquil old person of Hove.



    There was a young person in pink,
    Who called out for something to drink;
    But they said, O my daughter, there's nothing but water!
    Which vexed that young person in pink.



    There was an old lady of France,
    Who taught little ducklings to dance;
    When she said, Tick-a-tack! they only said, Quack!
    Which grieved that old lady of France.



    There was an old person of Putney,
    Whose food was roast spiders and chutney,
    Which he took with his tea, within sight of the sea,
    That romantic old person of Putney.



    There was an old person of Loo,
    Who said, What on earth shall I do?
    When they said, Go away! she continued to stay,
    That vexatious old person of Loo.



    There was an old person of Woking,
    Whose mind was perverse and provoking;
    He sate on a rail, with his head in a pail,
    That illusive old person of Woking.



    There was an old person of Dean
    Who dined on one pea, and one bean;
    For he said, More than that, would make me too fat,
    That cautious old person of Dean.



    There was a young lady in blue,
    Who said, Is it you? Is it you?
    When they said, Yes, it is, she replied only, Whizz!
    That ungracious young lady in blue.



    There was an old Man in a Garden,
    Who always begged every one's pardon;
    When they asked him, What for? he replied, You're a bore!
    And I trust you'll go out of my garden.



    There was an old person of Pisa,
    Whose daughters did nothing to please her;
    She dressed them in gray, and banged them all day,
    Round the walls of the city of Pisa.



    There was an old person of Florence,
    Who held mutton chops in abhorrence;
    He purchased a Bustard, and fried him in Mustard,
    Which choked that old person of Florence.



    There was an old person of Sheen,
    Whose expression was calm and serene;
    He sate in the water, and drank bottled porter,
    That placid old person of Sheen.



    There was an old person of Ware,
    Who rode on the back of a bear;
    When they ask'd, Does it trot? he said, Certainly not!
    He's a Moppsikon Floppsikon bear!



    There was a young person of Janina,
    Whose uncle was always a fanning her;
    When he fanned off her head, she smiled sweetly, and said,
    You propitious old person of Janina!



    There was an old man of Cashmere,
    Whose movements were scroobious and queer;
    Being slender and tall, he looked over a wall,
    And perceived two fat ducks of Cashmere.



    There was an old person of Cassel,
    Whose nose finished off in a tassel;
    But they call'd out, Oh well! don't it look like a bell!
    Which perplexed that old person of Cassel.



    There was an old person of Pett,
    Who was partly consumed by regret;
    He sate in a cart, and ate cold apple tart,
    Which relieved that old person of Pett.



    There was an old man of Spithead,
    Who opened the window, and said,--
    Fil-jomble, fil-jumble, fil-rumble-come-tumble!
    That doubtful old man of Spithead.



    There was an old man on the Border,
    Who lived in the utmost disorder;
    He danced with the cat, and made tea in his hat,
    Which vexed all the folks on the Border.



    There was an old man of Dumbree,
    Who taught little owls to drink tea;
    For he said, To eat mice is not proper or nice,
    That amiable man of Dumbree.



    There was an old person of Filey,
    Of whom his acquaintance spoke highly;
    He danced perfectly well, to the sound of a bell,
    And delighted the people of Filey.



    There was an old man whose remorse
    Induced him to drink Caper Sauce;
    For they said, If mixed up with some cold claret-cup,
    It will certainly soothe your remorse!



    There was an old man of Ibreem,
    Who suddenly threaten'd to scream;
    But they said, If you do, we will thump you quite blue,
    You disgusting old man of Ibreem!



    There was an old person of Wilts,
    Who constantly walked upon stilts;
    He wreathed them with lilies and daffy-down-dillies,
    That elegant person of Wilts.



    There was an old person of Grange,
    Whose manners were scroobious and strange;
    He sailed to St. Blubb in a waterproof tub,
    That aquatic old person of Grange.



    There was an old person of Newry,
    Whose manners were tinctured with fury;
    He tore all the rugs, and broke all the jugs,
    Within twenty miles' distance of Newry.



    There was an old man of Dumblane,
    Who greatly resembled a crane;
    But they said, Is it wrong, since your legs are so long,
    To request you won't stay in Dumblane?



    There was an old man of Port Grigor,
    Whose actions were noted for vigour;
    He stood on his head till his waistcoat turned red,
    That eclectic old man of Port Grigor.



    There was an old man of El Hums,
    Who lived upon nothing but crumbs,
    Which he picked off the ground, with the other birds round,
    In the roads and the lanes of El Hums.



    There was an old man of West Dumpet,
    Who possessed a large nose like a trumpet;
    When he blew it aloud, it astonished the crowd,
    And was heard through the whole of West Dumpet.



    There was an old person of Sark,
    Who made an unpleasant remark;
    But they said, Don't you see what a brute you must be,
    You obnoxious old person of Sark!



    There was an old man whose despair
    Induced him to purchase a hare:
    Whereon one fine day he rode wholly away,
    Which partly assuaged his despair.



    There was an old person of Barnes,
    Whose garments were covered with darns;
    But they said, Without doubt, you will soon wear them out,
    You luminous person of Barnes!



    There was an old person of Nice,
    Whose associates were usually Geese.
    They walked out together in all sorts of weather,
    That affable person of Nice!



    There was a young lady of Greenwich,
    Whose garments were border'd with Spinach;
    But a large spotty Calf bit her shawl quite in half,
    Which alarmed that young lady of Greenwich.



    There was an old person of Cannes,
    Who purchased three fowls and a fan;
    Those she placed on a stool, and to make them feel cool
    She constantly fanned them at Cannes.



    There was an old person of Ickley,
    Who could not abide to ride quickly;
    He rode to Karnak on a tortoise's back,
    That moony old person of Ickley.



    There was an old person of Hyde,
    Who walked by the shore with his bride,
    Till a Crab who came near fill'd their bosoms with fear,
    And they said, Would we'd never left Hyde!



    There was an old person in gray,
    Whose feelings were tinged with dismay;
    She purchased two parrots, and fed them with carrots,
    Which pleased that old person in gray.



    There was an old man of Ancona,
    Who found a small dog with no owner,
    Which he took up and down all the streets of the town,
    That anxious old man of Ancona.



    There was an old person of Sestri,
    Who sate himself down in the vestry;
    When they said, You are wrong! he merely said Bong!
    That repulsive old person of Sestri.



    There was an old person of Blythe,
    Who cut up his meat with a scythe;
    When they said, Well! I never! he cried, Scythes for ever!
    That lively old person of Blythe.



    There was a young person of Ayr,
    Whose head was remarkably square:
    On the top, in fine weather, she wore a gold feather;
    Which dazzled the people of Ayr.



    There was an old person of Rimini,
    Who said, Gracious! Goodness! O Gimini!
    When they said, Please be still! she ran down a hill,
    And was never more heard of at Rimini.



    There is a young lady, whose nose,
    Continually prospers and grows;
    When it grew out of sight, she exclaimed in a fright,
    Oh! Farewell to the end of my nose!



    There was an old person of Ealing,
    Who was wholly devoid of good feeling;
    He drove a small gig, with three Owls and a Pig,
    Which distressed all the people of Ealing.



    There was an old man of Thames Ditton,
    Who called out for something to sit on;
    But they brought him a hat, and said, Sit upon that,
    You abruptious old man of Thames Ditton!



    There was an old person of Bray,
    Who sang through the whole of the day
    To his ducks and his pigs, whom he fed upon figs,
    That valuable person of Bray.



    There was a young person whose history
    Was always considered a mystery;
    She sate in a ditch, although no one knew which,
    And composed a small treatise on history.



    There was an old person of Bow,
    Whom nobody happened to know;
    So they gave him some soap, and said coldly, We hope
    You will go back directly to Bow!



    There was an old person of Rye,
    Who went up to town on a fly;
    But they said, If you cough, you are safe to fall off!
    You abstemious old person of Rye!



    There was an old person of Crowle,
    Who lived in the nest of an owl;
    When they screamed in the nest, he screamed out with the rest,
    That depressing old person of Crowle.



    There was an old Lady of Winchelsea,
    Who said, If you needle or pin shall see
    On the floor of my room, sweep it up with the broom!
    That exhaustive old Lady of Winchelsea!



    There was an old man in a tree,
    Whose whiskers were lovely to see;
    But the birds of the air pluck'd them perfectly bare,
    To make themselves nests in that tree.



    There was a young lady of Corsica,
    Who purchased a little brown saucy-cur;
    Which she fed upon ham, and hot raspberry jam,
    That expensive young lady of Corsica.



    There was a young lady of Firle,
    Whose hair was addicted to curl;
    It curled up a tree, and all over the sea,
    That expansive young lady of Firle.



    There was an old person of Stroud,
    Who was horribly jammed in a crowd;
    Some she slew with a kick, some she scrunched with a stick,
    That impulsive old person of Stroud.



    There was an old man of Boulak,
    Who sate on a Crocodile's back;
    But they said, Towr'ds the night he may probably bite,
    Which might vex you, old man of Boulak!



    There was an old person of Skye,
    Who waltz'd with a Bluebottle fly:
    They buzz'd a sweet tune, to the light of the moon,
    And entranced all the people of Skye.



    There was an old man of Blackheath,
    Whose head was adorned with a wreath
    Of lobsters and spice, pickled onions and mice,
    That uncommon old man of Blackheath.



    There was an old man, who when little
    Fell casually into a kettle;
    But, growing too stout, he could never get out,
    So he passed all his life in that kettle.



    There was an old person of Dundalk,
    Who tried to teach fishes to walk;
    When they tumbled down dead, he grew weary, and said,
    I had better go back to Dundalk!



    There was an old person of Shoreham,
    Whose habits were marked by decorum;
    He bought an Umbrella, and sate in the cellar,
    Which pleased all the people of Shoreham.



    There was an old person of Bar,
    Who passed all her life in a jar,
    Which she painted pea-green, to appear more serene,
    That placid old person of Bar.



    There was a young person of Kew,
    Whose virtues and vices were few;
    But with blamable haste she devoured some hot paste,
    Which destroyed that young person of Kew.



    There was an old person of Jodd,
    Whose ways were perplexing and odd;
    She purchased a whistle, and sate on a thistle,
    And squeaked to the people of Jodd.



    There was an old person of Bude,
    Whose deportment was vicious and crude;
    He wore a large ruff of pale straw-colored stuff,
    Which perplexed all the people of Bude.



    There was an old person of Brigg,
    Who purchased no end of a wig;
    So that only his nose, and the end of his toes,
    Could be seen when he walked about Brigg.



    There was an old man of Messina,
    Whose daughter was named Opsibeena;
    She wore a small wig, and rode out on a pig,
    To the perfect delight of Messina.




TWENTY-SIX NONSENSE RHYMES AND PICTURES.




    The Absolutely Abstemious Ass,
    who resided in a Barrel, and only lived on
    Soda Water and Pickled Cucumbers.



    The Bountiful Beetle,
    who always carried a Green Umbrella when it didn't rain,
    and left it at home when it did.



    The Comfortable Confidential Cow,
    who sate in her Red Morocco Arm Chair and
    toasted her own Bread at the parlour Fire.



    The Dolomphious Duck,
    who caught Spotted Frogs for her dinner
    with a Runcible Spoon.



    The Enthusiastic Elephant,
    who ferried himself across the water with the
    Kitchen Poker and a New pair of Ear-rings.



    The Fizzgiggious Fish,
    who always walked about upon Stilts,
    because he had no legs.



    The Good-natured Grey Gull,
    who carried the Old Owl, and his Crimson Carpet-bag,
    across the river, because he could not swim.



    The Hasty Higgeldipiggledy Hen,
    who went to market in a Blue Bonnet and Shawl,
    and bought a Fish for her Supper.



    The Inventive Indian,
    who caught a Remarkable Rabbit in a
    Stupendous Silver Spoon.



    The Judicious Jubilant Jay,
    who did up her Back Hair every morning with a Wreath of Roses,
    Three feathers, and a Gold Pin.



    The Kicking Kangaroo,
    who wore a Pale Pink Muslin dress
    with Blue spots.



    The Lively Learned Lobster,
    who mended his own Clothes with
    a Needle and Thread.



    The Melodious Meritorious Mouse,
    who played a merry minuet on the
    Piano-forte.



    The Nutritious Newt,
    who purchased a Round Plum-pudding
    for his grand-daughter.



    The Obsequious Ornamental Ostrich,
    who wore Boots to keep his
    feet quite dry.

    [Illustration: PARSNIP PIE]

    The Perpendicular Purple Polly,
    who read the Newspaper and ate Parsnip Pie
    with his Spectacles.



    The Queer Querulous Quail,
    who smoked a Pipe of tobacco on the top of
    a Tin Tea-kettle.



    The Rural Runcible Raven,
    who wore a White Wig and flew away
    with the Carpet Broom.



    The Scroobious Snake,
    who always wore a Hat on his Head, for
    fear he should bite anybody.



    The Tumultuous Tom-tommy Tortoise,
    who beat a Drum all day long in the
    middle of the wilderness.



    The Umbrageous Umbrella-maker,
    whose Face nobody ever saw, because it was
    always covered by his Umbrella.



    The Visibly Vicious Vulture,
    who wrote some Verses to a Veal-cutlet in a
    Volume bound in Vellum.



    The Worrying Whizzing Wasp,
    who stood on a Table, and played sweetly on a
    Flute with a Morning Cap.

    The Excellent Double-extra XX
    imbibing King Xerxes, who lived a
    long while ago.

    The Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
    whose Head was ever so much bigger than his
    Body, and whose Hat was rather small.

    The Zigzag Zealous Zebra,
    who carried five Monkeys on his back all
    the way to Jellibolee.
    
    
    The Owl and the Pussy-Cat went to sea
      In a beautiful pea-green boat:
    They took some honey, and plenty of money
      Wrapped up in a five-pound note.
    The Owl looked up to the stars above,
      And sang to a small guitar,
   O lovely Pussy, O Pussy, my love,
        What a beautiful Pussy you are,
          You are,
          You are!
      What a beautiful Pussy you are!


                    II.

    Pussy said to the Owl, You elegant fowl,
      How charmingly sweet you sing!
    Oh! let us be married; too long we have tarried:
      But what shall we do for a ring?
    They sailed away, for a year and a day,
      To the land where the bong-tree grows;
    And there in a wood a Piggy-wig stood,
      With a ring at the end of his nose,
          His nose,
          His nose,
      With a ring at the end of his nose.


                    III.

    Dear Pig, are you willing to sell for one shilling
      Your ring? Said the Piggy, I will.
    So they took it away, and were married next day
      By the Turkey who lives on the hill.
    They dined on mince and slices of quince,
      Which they ate with a runcible spoon;
    And hand in hand, on the edge of the sand,
      They danced by the light of the moon,
          The moon,
          The moon,
    They danced by the light of the moon.

THE DUCK AND THE KANGAROO.

    Said the Duck to the Kangaroo,
       Good gracious! how you hop
    Over the fields, and the water too,
        As if you never would stop!
    My life is a bore in this nasty pond;
    And I long to go out in the world beyond:
        I wish I could hop like you,
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.

   Please give me a ride on your back,
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo:
   I would sit quite still, and say nothing but 'Quack'
        The whole of the long day through;
    And we 'd go the Dee, and the Jelly Bo Lee,
    Over the land, and over the sea:
        Please take me a ride! oh, do!
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.

    Said the Kangaroo to the Duck,
       This requires some little reflection.
    Perhaps, on the whole, it might bring me luck;
        And there seems but one objection;
    Which is, if you'll let me speak so bold,
    Your feet are unpleasantly wet and cold,
        And would probably give me the roo-
        Matiz, said the Kangaroo.


    Said the Duck, As I sate on the rocks,
        I have thought over that completely;
    And I bought four pairs of worsted socks,
        Which fit my web-feet neatly;
    And, to keep out the cold, I've bought a cloak;
    And every day a cigar I'll smoke;
        All to follow my own dear true
        Love of a Kangaroo.

    Said the Kangaroo, I'm ready,
        All in the moonlight pale;
    But to balance me well, dear Duck, sit steady,
        And quite at the end of my tail.
    So away they went with a hop and a bound;
    And they hopped the whole world three times round.
        And who so happy, oh! who,
        As the Duck and the Kangaroo?

    Once Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
        Dressed in brown and gray,
    Walked about upon the sands
        Upon a summer's day:
    And there among the pebbles,
        When the wind was rather cold,
    He met with Mr. Floppy Fly,
        All dressed in blue and gold;
    And, as it was too soon to dine,
    They drank some periwinkle-wine,
    And played an hour or two, or more,
    At battlecock and shuttledore.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        To Mr. Floppy Fly,
    Why do you never come to court?
        I wish you 'd tell me why.
    All gold and shine, in dress so fine,
        You'd quite delight the court.
    Why do you never go at all?
        I really think you _ought_.
    And, if you went, you'd see such sights!
    Such rugs and jugs and candle-lights!
    And, more than all, the king and queen,--
    One in red, and one in green.

    O Mr. Daddy Long-legs!
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    It's true I never go to court;
        And I will tell you why.
    If I had six long legs like yours,
        At once I'd go to court;
    But, oh! I can't, because _my_ legs
        Are so extremely short.
    And I'm afraid the king and queen
    One in red, and one in green
    Would say aloud, 'You are not fit,
    You Fly, to come to court a bit!'


                    IV.

    Oh, Mr. Daddy Long-legs!
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    I wish you 'd sing one little song,
        One mumbian melody.
    You used to sing so awful well
        In former days gone by;
    But now you never sing at all:
        I wish you'd tell me why:
    For, if you would, the silvery sound
    Would please the shrimps and cockles round,
    And all the crabs would gladly come
    To hear you sing, 'Ah, Hum di Hum!'


                    V.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
       I can never sing again;
    And, if you wish, I'll tell you why,
        Although it gives me pain.
    For years I cannot hum a bit,
        Or sing the smallest song;
    And this the dreadful reason is,--
        My legs are grown too long!
    My six long legs, all here and there,
    Oppress my bosom with despair;
    And, if I stand or lie or sit,
    I cannot sing one single bit!


                    VI.

    So Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Sat down in silence by the sea,
        And gazed upon the sky.
    They said, This is a dreadful thing!
        The world has all gone wrong,
    Since one has legs too short by half,
        The other much too long.
    One never more can go to court,
    Because his legs have grown too short;
    The other cannot sing a song,
    Because his legs have grown too long!


                    VII.

    Then Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Rushed downward to the foamy sea
        With one sponge-taneous cry:
    And there they found a little boat,
        Whose sails were pink and gray;
    And off they sailed among the waves,
        Far and far away:
    They sailed across the silent main,
    And reached the great Gromboolian Plain;
    And there they play forevermore
    At battlecock and shuttledore.


    They went to sea in a sieve, they did;
        In a sieve they went to sea:
    In spite of all their friends could say,
    On a winter's morn, on a stormy day,
        In a sieve they went to sea.
    And when the sieve turned round and round,
    And every one cried, You'll all be drowned!
    They called aloud, Our sieve ain't big;
    But we don't care a button, we don't care a fig:
        In a sieve we'll go to sea!
             Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
             Their heads are green, and their hands are blue
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


    They sailed away in a sieve, they did,
        In a sieve they sailed so fast,
    With only a beautiful pea-green veil
    Tied with a ribbon, by way of a sail,
        To a small tobacco-pipe mast.
    And every one said who saw them go,
   Oh! won't they be soon upset, you know?
    For the sky is dark, and the voyage is long;
    And, happen what may, it's extremely wrong
        In a sieve to sail so fast.
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

    The water it soon came in, it did;
        The water it soon came in:
    So, to keep them dry, they wrapped their feet
        In a pinky paper all folded neat;
    And they fastened it down with a pin.
    And they passed the night in a crockery-jar;
    And each of them said, How wise we are!
    Though the sky be dark, and the voyage be long,
    Yet we never can think we were rash or wrong,
        While round in our sieve we spin.
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

    And all night long they sailed away;
        And when the sun went down,
    They whistled and warbled a moony song
        To the echoing sound of a coppery gong,
    In the shade of the mountains brown.
   O Timballoo! How happy we are
    When we live in a sieve and a crockery-jar!
    And all night long, in the moonlight pale,
    We sail away with a pea-green sail
        In the shade of the mountains brown.
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     V.

    They sailed to the Western Sea, they did,--
        To a land all covered with trees:
    And they bought an owl, and a useful cart,
        And a pound of rice, and a cranberry-tart,
    And a hive of silvery bees;
    And they bought a pig, and some green jackdaws,
    And a lovely monkey with lollipop paws,
    And forty bottles of ring-bo-ree,
        And no end of Stilton cheese.
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.


                     VI.

    And in twenty years they all came back,--
        In twenty years or more;
    And every one said, How tall they've grown!
        For they've been to the Lakes, and the Torrible Zone,
    And the hills of the Chankly Bore.
    And they drank their health, and gave them a feast
    Of dumplings made of beautiful yeast;
    And every one said, If we only live,
    We, too, will go to sea in a sieve,
        To the hills of the Chankly Bore.
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.



    The Nutcrackers sate by a plate on the table;
        The Sugar-tongs sate by a plate at his side;
    And the Nutcrackers said, Don't you wish we were able
        Along the blue hills and green meadows to ride?
    Must we drag on this stupid existence forever,
        So idle and weary, so full of remorse,
    While every one else takes his pleasure, and never
        Seems happy unless he is riding a horse?


                     II.

    Don't you think we could ride without being instructed,
        Without any saddle or bridle or spur?
    Our legs are so long, and so aptly constructed,
        I'm sure that an accident could not occur.
    Let us all of a sudden hop down from the table,
        And hustle downstairs, and each jump on a horse!
    Shall we try? Shall we go? Do you think we are able?
        The Sugar-tongs answered distinctly, Of course!


                     III.

    So down the long staircase they hopped in a minute;
        The Sugar-tongs snapped, and the Crackers said Crack!
    The stable was open; the horses were in it:
        Each took out a pony, and jumped on his back.
    The Cat in a fright scrambled out of the doorway;
        The Mice tumbled out of a bundle of hay;
    The brown and white Rats, and the black ones from Norway,
        Screamed out, They are taking the horses away!


                     IV.

    The whole of the household was filled with amazement:
        The Cups and the Saucers danced madly about;
    The Plates and the Dishes looked out of the casement;
        The Salt-cellar stood on his head with a shout;
    The Spoons, with a clatter, looked out of the lattice;
        The Mustard-pot climbed up the gooseberry-pies;
    The Soup-ladle peeped through a heap of veal-patties,
        And squeaked with a ladle-like scream of surprise.


                     V.

    The Frying-pan said, It's an awful delusion!
        The Tea-kettle hissed, and grew black in the face;
    And they all rushed downstairs in the wildest confusion
        To see the great Nutcracker-Sugar-tong race.
    And out of the stable, with screamings and laughter
        Their ponies were cream-colored, speckled with brown,
    The Nutcrackers first, and the Sugar-tongs after;
        Rode all round the yard, and then all round the town.


                     VI.

    They rode through the street, and they rode by the station;
        They galloped away to the beautiful shore;
    In silence they rode, and made no observation,
        Save this: We will never go back any more!
    And still you might hear, till they rode out of hearing,
        The Sugar-tongs snap, and the Crackers say Crack!
    Till, far in the distance their forms disappearing,
        They faded away; and they never came back!

      Calico pie,
      The little birds fly
    Down to the calico-tree:
      Their wings were blue,
      And they sang Tilly-loo!
      Till away they flew;
        And they never came back to me!
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me!


                     II.

      Calico jam,
      The little Fish swam
    Over the Syllabub Sea.
      He took off his hat
      To the Sole and the Sprat,
      And the Willeby-wat:
        But he never came back to me;
          He never came back,
          He never came back,
        He never came back to me.

               


                     III.

      Calico ban,
      The little Mice ran
    To be ready in time for tea;
      Flippity flup,
      They drank it all up,
      And danced in the cup:
        But they never came back to me;
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me.

               


                     IV.

      Calico drum,
      The Grasshoppers come,
    The Butterfly, Beetle, and Bee,
      Over the ground,
      Around and round,
      With a hop and a bound;
        But they never came back,
          They never came back,
          They never came back.
        They never came back to me.



    On a little piece of wood
    Mr. Spikky Sparrow stood:
    Mrs. Sparrow sate close by,
    A-making of an insect-pie
    For her little children five,
    In the nest and all alive;
    Singing with a cheerful smile,
    To amuse them all the while,
       Twikky wikky wikky wee,
        Wikky bikky twikky tee,
            Spikky bikky bee!

    Mrs. Spikky Sparrow said,
    Spikky, darling! in my head
    Many thoughts of trouble come,
    Like to flies upon a plum.
    All last night, among the trees,
    I heard you cough, I heard you sneeze;
    And thought I, 'It's come to that
    Because he does not wear a hat!'
        Chippy wippy sikky tee,
        Bikky wikky tikky mee,
            Spikky chippy wee!

    Not that you are growing old;
    But the nights are growing cold.
    No one stays out all night long
    Without a hat: I'm sure it's wrong!
    Mr. Spikky said, How kind,
    Dear, you are, to speak your mind!
    All your life I wish you luck!
    You are, you are, a lovely duck!
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twitchy witchy witchy bee,
            Tikky tikky tee!

    I was also sad, and thinking,
    When one day I saw you winking,
    And I heard you sniffle-snuffle,
    And I saw your feathers ruffle:
    To myself I sadly said,
    'She's neuralgia in her head!
    That dear head has nothing on it!
    Ought she not to wear a bonnet?'
        Witchy kitchy kitchy wee,
        Spikky wikky mikky bee,
            Chippy wippy chee!

    Let us both fly up to town:
    There I'll buy you such a gown!
    Which, completely in the fashion,
    You shall tie a sky-blue sash on;
    And a pair of slippers neat
    To fit your darling little feet,
    So that you will look and feel
    Quite galloobious and genteel.
        Jikky wikky bikky see,
        Chicky bikky wikky bee,
            Twicky witchy wee!

    So they both to London went,
    Alighting on the Monument;
    Whence they flew down swiftly--pop!
    Into Moses' wholesale shop:
    There they bought a hat and bonnet,
    And a gown with spots upon it,
    A satin sash of Cloxam blue,
    And a pair of slippers too.
        Zikky wikky mikky bee,
        Witchy witchy mitchy kee,
            Sikky tikky wee!

    Then, when so completely dressed,
    Back they flew, and reached their nest.
    Their children cried, O ma and pa!
    How truly beautiful you are!
    Said they, We trust that cold or pain
    We shall never feel again;
    While, perched on tree or house or steeple,
    We now shall look like other people.
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twikky mikky bikky bee,
            Zikky sikky tee!

    The Broom and the Shovel, the Poker and Tongs,
      They all took a drive in the Park;
    And they each sang a song, ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
      Before they went back in the dark.
    Mr. Poker he sate quite upright in the coach;
      Mr. Tongs made a clatter and clash;
    Miss Shovel was dressed all in black with a brooch;
      Mrs. Broom was in blue with a sash.
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        And they all sang a song.


                     II.

   O Shovely so lovely! the Poker he sang,
     You have perfectly conquered my heart.
    Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong! If you're pleased with my song,
      I will feed you with cold apple-tart.
    When you scrape up the coals with a delicate sound,
      You enrapture my life with delight,
    Your nose is so shiny, your head is so round,
      And your shape is so slender and bright!
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        Ain't you pleased with my song?


                     III.

   Alas! Mrs. Broom, sighed the Tongs in his song,
     Oh! is it because I'm so thin,
    And my legs are so long,--ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!--
      That you don't care about me a pin?
    Ah! fairest of creatures, when sweeping the room,
      Ah! why don't you heed my complaint?
    Must you needs be so cruel, you beautiful Broom,
      Because you are covered with paint?
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        You are certainly wrong.


                     IV.

    Mrs. Broom and Miss Shovel together they sang,
     What nonsense you're singing to-day!
    Said the Shovel, I'll certainly hit you a bang!
      Said the Broom, And I'll sweep you away!
    So the coachman drove homeward as fast as he could,
      Perceiving their anger with pain;
    But they put on the kettle, and little by little
      They all became happy again.
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        There's an end of my song.



    Said the Table to the Chair,
    You can hardly be aware
    How I suffer from the heat
    And from chilblains on my feet.
    If we took a little walk,
    We might have a little talk;
    Pray let us take the air,
    Said the Table to the Chair.

    Said the Chair unto the Table,
    Now, you _know_ we are not able:
    How foolishly you talk,
    When you know we _cannot_ walk!
    Said the Table with a sigh,
    It can do no harm to try.
    I've as many legs as you:
    Why can't we walk on two?

    So they both went slowly down,
    And walked about the town
    With a cheerful bumpy sound
    As they toddled round and round;
    And everybody cried,
    As they hastened to their side,
    See! the Table and the Chair
    Have come out to take the air!

    But in going down an alley,
    To a castle in a valley,
    They completely lost their way,
    And wandered all the day;
    Till, to see them safely back,
    They paid a Ducky-quack,
    And a Beetle, and a Mouse,
    Who took them to their house.

              


                     V.

    Then they whispered to each other,
    O delightful little brother,
    What a lovely walk we've taken!
    Let us dine on beans and bacon.
    So the Ducky and the leetle
    Browny-Mousy and the Beetle
    Dined, and danced upon their heads
    Till they toddled to their beds.

    Once upon a time, a long while ago, there were four little people whose
names were



VIOLET, SLINGSBY, GUY, and LIONEL;
and they all thought they should like to see the world. So they bought a
large boat to sail quite round the world by sea, and then they were to come
back on the other side by land. The boat was painted blue with green spots,
and the sail was yellow with red stripes: and, when they set off, they only
took a small Cat to steer and look after the boat, besides an elderly
Quangle-Wangle, who had to cook the dinner and make the tea; for which
purposes they took a large kettle.



For the first ten days they sailed on beautifully, and found plenty to eat,
as there were lots of fish; and they had only to take them out of the sea
with a long spoon, when the Quangle-Wangle instantly cooked them; and the
Pussy-Cat was fed with the bones, with which she expressed herself pleased,
on the whole: so that all the party were very happy.

During the daytime, Violet chiefly occupied herself in putting salt water
into a churn; while her three brothers churned it violently, in the hope
that it would turn into butter, which it seldom if ever did; and in the
evening they all retired into the tea-kettle, where they all managed to
sleep very comfortably, while Pussy and the Quangle-Wangle managed the
boat.



After a time, they saw some land at a distance; and, when they came to it,
they found it was an island made of water quite surrounded by earth.
Besides that, it was bordered by evanescent isthmuses, with a great
gulf-stream running about all over it; so that it was perfectly beautiful,
and contained only a single tree, 503 feet high.

When they had landed, they walked about, but found, to their great
surprise, that the island was quite full of veal-cutlets and
chocolate-drops, and nothing else. So they all climbed up the single high
tree to discover, if possible, if there were any people; but having
remained on the top of the tree for a week, and not seeing anybody, they
naturally concluded that there were no inhabitants; and accordingly, when
they came down, they loaded the boat with two thousand veal-cutlets and a
million of chocolate-drops; and these afforded them sustenance for more
than a month, during which time they pursued their voyage with the utmost
delight and apathy.



After this they came to a shore where there were no less than sixty-five
great red parrots with blue tails, sitting on a rail all of a row, and all
fast asleep. And I am sorry to say that the Pussy-Cat and the
Quangle-Wangle crept softly, and bit off the tail-feathers of all the
sixty-five parrots; for which Violet reproved them both severely.



Notwithstanding which, she proceeded to insert all the feathers--two
hundred and sixty in number--in her bonnet; thereby causing it to have a
lovely and glittering appearance, highly prepossessing and efficacious.



The next thing that happened to them was in a narrow part of the sea, which
was so entirely full of fishes that the boat could go on no farther: so
they remained there about six weeks, till they had eaten nearly all the
fishes, which were soles, and all ready-cooked, and covered with
shrimp-sauce, so that there was no trouble whatever. And as the few fishes
who remained uneaten complained of the cold, as well as of the difficulty
they had in getting any sleep on account of the extreme noise made by the
arctic bears and the tropical turnspits, which frequented the neighborhood
in great numbers, Violet most amiably knitted a small woollen frock for
several of the fishes, and Slingsby administered some opium-drops to them;
through which kindness they became quite warm, and slept soundly.



Then they came to a country which was wholly covered with immense
orange-trees of a vast size, and quite full of fruit. So they all landed,
taking with them the tea-kettle, intending to gather some of the oranges,
and place them in it. But, while they were busy about this, a most
dreadfully high wind rose, and blew out most of the parrot-tail feathers
from Violet's bonnet. That, however, was nothing compared with the calamity
of the oranges falling down on their heads by millions and millions, which
thumped and bumped and bumped and thumped them all so seriously, that they
were obliged to run as hard as they could for their lives; besides that the
sound of the oranges rattling on the tea-kettle was of the most fearful and
amazing nature.



Nevertheless, they got safely to the boat, although considerably vexed and
hurt; and the Quangle-Wangle's right foot was so knocked about, that he had
to sit with his head in his slipper for at least a week.



This event made them all for a time rather melancholy: and perhaps they
might never have become less so, had not Lionel, with a most praiseworthy
devotion and perseverance, continued to stand on one leg, and whistle to
them in a loud and lively manner; which diverted the whole party so
extremely that they gradually recovered their spirits, and agreed that
whenever they should reach home, they would subscribe towards a testimonial
to Lionel, entirely made of gingerbread and raspberries, as an earnest
token of their sincere and grateful infection.



After sailing on calmly for several more days, they came to another
country, where they were much pleased and surprised to see a countless
multitude of white Mice with red eyes, all sitting in a great circle,
slowly eating custard-pudding with the most satisfactory and polite
demeanor.



And as the four travellers were rather hungry, being tired of eating
nothing but soles and oranges for so long a period, they held a council as
to the propriety of asking the Mice for some of their pudding in a humble
and affecting manner, by which they could hardly be otherwise than
gratified. It was agreed, therefore, that Guy should go and ask the Mice,
which he immediately did; and the result was, that they gave a walnut-shell
only half full of custard diluted with water. Now, this displeased Guy, who
said, Out of such a lot of pudding as you have got, I must say, you might
have spared a somewhat larger quantity. But no sooner had he finished
speaking than the Mice turned round at once, and sneezed at him in an
appalling and vindictive manner and it is impossible to imagine a more
scroobious and unpleasant sound than that caused by the simultaneous
sneezing of many millions of angry Mice; so that Guy rushed back to the
boat, having first shied his cap into the middle of the custard-pudding, by
which means he completely spoiled the Mice's dinner.



By and by the four children came to a country where there were no houses,
but only an incredibly innumerable number of large bottles without corks,
and of a dazzling and sweetly susceptible blue color. Each of these blue
bottles contained a Blue-Bottle-Fly; and all these interesting animals live
continually together in the most copious and rural harmony: nor perhaps in
many parts of the world is such perfect and abject happiness to be found.
Violet and Slingsby and Guy and Lionel were greatly struck with this
singular and instructive settlement; and, having previously asked
permission of the Blue-Bottle-Flies which was most courteously granted,
the boat was drawn up to the shore, and they proceeded to make tea in front
of the bottles: but as they had no tea-leaves, they merely placed some
pebbles in the hot water; and the Quangle-Wangle played some tunes over it
on an accordion, by which, of course, tea was made directly, and of the
very best quality.

The four children then entered into conversation with the
Blue-Bottle-Flies, who discoursed in a placid and genteel manner, though
with a slightly buzzing accent, chiefly owing to the fact that they each
held a small clothes-brush between their teeth, which naturally occasioned
a fizzy, extraneous utterance.

Why, said Violet, would you kindly inform us, do you reside in bottles;
and, if in bottles at all, why not, rather, in green or purple, or, indeed,
in yellow bottles?

To which questions a very aged Blue-Bottle-Fly answered, We found the
bottles here all ready to live in; that is to say, our great-great-great-
great-great-grandfathers did: so we occupied them at once. And, when the
winter comes on, we turn the bottles upside down, and consequently rarely
feel the cold at all; and you know very well that this could not be the
case with bottles of any other color than blue.

Of course it could not, said Slingsby. But, if we may take the liberty
of inquiring, on what do you chiefly subsist?

Mainly on oyster-patties, said the Blue-Bottle-Fly; and, when these are
scarce, on raspberry vinegar and Russian leather boiled down to a jelly.

How delicious! said Guy.

To which Lionel added, Huzz! And all the Blue-Bottle-Flies said, Buzz!

At this time, an elderly Fly said it was the hour for the evening-song to
be sung; and, on a signal being given, all the Blue-Bottle-Flies began to
buzz at once in a sumptuous and sonorous manner, the melodious and
mucilaginous sounds echoing all over the waters, and resounding across the
tumultuous tops of the transitory titmice upon the intervening and verdant
mountains with a serene and sickly suavity only known to the truly
virtuous. The Moon was shining slobaciously from the star-bespangled sky,
while her light irrigated the smooth and shiny sides and wings and backs of
the Blue-Bottle-Flies with a peculiar and trivial splendor, while all
Nature cheerfully responded to the cerulean and conspicuous circumstances.

In many long-after years, the four little travellers looked back to that
evening as one of the happiest in all their lives; and it was already past
midnight when--the sail of the boat having been set up by the
Quangle-Wangle, the tea-kettle and churn placed in their respective
positions, and the Pussy-Cat stationed at the helm--the children each took
a last and affectionate farewell of the Blue-Bottle-Flies, who walked down
in a body to the water's edge to see the travellers embark.



As a token of parting respect and esteem, Violet made a courtesy quite down
to the ground, and stuck one of her few remaining parrot-tail feathers into
the back hair of the most pleasing of the Blue-Bottle-Flies; while
Slingsby, Guy, and Lionel offered them three small boxes, containing,
respectively, black pins, dried figs, and Epsom salts; and thus they left
that happy shore forever.

Overcome by their feelings, the four little travellers instantly jumped
into the tea-kettle, and fell fast asleep. But all along the shore, for
many hours, there was distinctly heard a sound of severely-suppressed sobs,
and of a vague multitude of living creatures using their
pocket-handkerchiefs in a subdued simultaneous snuffle, lingering sadly
along the walloping waves as the boat sailed farther and farther away from
the Land of the Happy Blue-Bottle-Flies.

Nothing particular occurred for some days after these events, except that,
as the travellers were passing a low tract of sand, they perceived an
unusual and gratifying spectacle; namely, a large number of Crabs and
Crawfish--perhaps six or seven hundred--sitting by the water-side, and
endeavoring to disentangle a vast heap of pale pink worsted, which they
moistened at intervals with a fluid composed of lavender-water and
white-wine negus.

Can we be of any service to you, O crusty Crabbies? said the four
children.

Thank you kindly, said the Crabs consecutively. We are trying to make
some worsted mittens, but do not know how.

On which Violet, who was perfectly acquainted with the art of
mitten-making, said to the Crabs, Do your claws unscrew, or are they
fixtures?

They are all made to unscrew, said the Crabs; and forthwith they
deposited a great pile of claws close to the boat, with which Violet
uncombed all the pale pink worsted, and then made the loveliest mittens
with it you can imagine. These the Crabs, having resumed and screwed on
their claws, placed cheerfully upon their wrists, and walked away rapidly
on their hind-legs, warbling songs with a silvery voice and in a minor key.

After this, the four little people sailed on again till they came to a vast
and wide plain of astonishing dimensions, on which nothing whatever could
be discovered at first; but, as the travellers walked onward, there
appeared in the extreme and dim distance a single object, which on a nearer
approach, and on an accurately cutaneous inspection, seemed to be somebody
in a large white wig, sitting on an arm-chair made of sponge-cakes and
oyster-shells. It does not quite look like a human being, said Violet
doubtfully; nor could they make out what it really was, till the
Quangle-Wangle who had previously been round the world exclaimed softly
in a loud voice, It is the co-operative Cauliflower!



And so, in truth, it was: and they soon found that what they had taken for
an immense wig was in reality the top of the Cauliflower; and that he had
no feet at all, being able to walk tolerably well with a fluctuating and
graceful movement on a single cabbage-stalk,--an accomplishment which
naturally saved him the expense of stockings and shoes.

Presently, while the whole party from the boat was gazing at him with
mingled affection and disgust, he suddenly arose, and, in a somewhat
plumdomphious manner, hurried off towards the setting sun,--his steps
supported by two superincumbent confidential Cucumbers, and a large number
of Waterwagtails proceeding in advance of him by three and three in a
row,--till he finally disappeared on the brink of the western sky in a
crystal cloud of sudorific sand.



So remarkable a sight, of course, impressed the four children very deeply;
and they returned immediately to their boat with a strong sense of
undeveloped asthma and a great appetite.

Shortly after this, the travellers were obliged to sail directly below some
high overhanging rocks, from the top of one of which a particularly odious
little boy, dressed in rose-colored knickerbockers, and with a pewter plate
upon his head, threw an enormous pumpkin at the boat, by which it was
instantly upset.



But this upsetting was of no consequence, because all the party knew how to
swim very well: and, in fact, they preferred swimming about till after the
moon rose; when, the water growing chilly, they sponge-taneously entered
the boat. Meanwhile the Quangle-Wangle threw back the pumpkin with immense
force, so that it hit the rocks where the malicious little boy in
rose-colored knickerbockers was sitting; when, being quite full of
lucifer-matches, the pumpkin exploded surreptitiously into a thousand bits;
whereon the rocks instantly took fire, and the odious little boy became
unpleasantly hotter and hotter and hotter, till his knickerbockers were
turned quite green, and his nose was burnt off.

Two or three days after this had happened, they came to another place,
where they found nothing at all except some wide and deep pits full of
mulberry-jam. This is the property of the tiny, yellow-nosed Apes who
abound in these districts, and who store up the mulberry-jam for their food
in winter, when they mix it with pellucid pale periwinkle-soup, and serve
it out in wedgewood china-bowls, which grow freely all over that part of
the country. Only one of the yellow-nosed Apes was on the spot, and he was
fast asleep; yet the four travellers and the Quangle-Wangle and Pussy were
so terrified by the violence and sanguinary sound of his snoring, that they
merely took a small cupful of the jam, and returned to re-embark in their
boat without delay.

What was their horror on seeing the boat including the churn and the
tea-kettle in the mouth of an enormous Seeze Pyder, an aquatic and
ferocious creature truly dreadful to behold, and, happily, only met with in
those excessive longitudes! In a moment, the beautiful boat was bitten into
fifty-five thousand million hundred billion bits; and it instantly became
quite clear that Violet, Slingsby, Guy, and Lionel could no longer
preliminate their voyage by sea.

The four travellers were therefore obliged to resolve on pursuing their
wanderings by land: and, very fortunately, there happened to pass by at
that moment an elderly Rhinoceros, on which they seized; and, all four
mounting on his back,--the Quangle-Wangle sitting on his horn, and holding
on by his ears, and the Pussy-Cat swinging at the end of his tail,--they
set off, having only four small beans and three pounds of mashed potatoes
to last through their whole journey.



They were, however, able to catch numbers of the chickens and turkeys and
other birds who incessantly alighted on the head of the Rhinoceros for the
purpose of gathering the seeds of the rhododendron-plants which grew
there; and these creatures they cooked in the most translucent and
satisfactory manner by means of a fire lighted on the end of the
Rhinoceros's back. A crowd of Kangaroos and gigantic Cranes accompanied
them, from feelings of curiosity and complacency; so that they were never
at a loss for company, and went onward, as it were, in a sort of profuse
and triumphant procession.

Thus in less than eighteen weeks they all arrived safely at home, where
they were received by their admiring relatives with joy tempered with
contempt, and where they finally resolved to carry out the rest of their
travelling-plans at some more favorable opportunity.

As for the Rhinoceros, in token of their grateful adherence, they had him
killed and stuffed directly, and then set him up outside the door of their
father's house as a diaphanous doorscraper.






THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES OF
THE LAKE PIPPLE-POPPLE.


CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.

In former days,--that is to say, once upon a time,--there lived in the Land
of Gramble-Blamble seven families. They lived by the side of the great Lake
Pipple-Popple one of the seven families, indeed, lived _in_ the lake, and
on the outskirts of the city of Tosh, which, excepting when it was quite
dark, they could see plainly. The names of all these places you have
probably heard of; and you have only not to look in your geography-books to
find out all about them.

Now, the seven families who lived on the borders of the great Lake
Pipple-Popple were as follows in the next chapter.


CHAPTER II.

THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

There was a family of two old Parrots and seven young Parrots.



There was a family of two old Storks and seven young Storks.



There was a family of two old Geese and seven young Geese.



There was a family of two old Owls and seven young Owls.



There was a family of two old Guinea Pigs and seven young Guinea Pigs.



There was a family of two old Cats and seven young Cats.



And there was a family of two old Fishes and seven young Fishes.




CHAPTER III.

THE HABITS OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

The Parrots lived upon the Soffsky-Poffsky trees, which were beautiful to
behold, and covered with blue leaves; and they fed upon fruit, artichokes,
and striped beetles.

The Storks walked in and out of the Lake Pipple-Popple, and ate frogs for
breakfast, and buttered toast for tea; but on account of the extreme length
of their legs they could not sit down, and so they walked about
continually.

The Geese, having webs to their feet, caught quantities of flies, which
they ate for dinner.

The Owls anxiously looked after mice, which they caught, and made into
sago-puddings.

The Guinea Pigs toddled about the gardens, and ate lettuces and Cheshire
cheese.

The Cats sate still in the sunshine, and fed upon sponge biscuits.

The Fishes lived in the lake, and fed chiefly on boiled periwinkles.

And all these seven families lived together in the utmost fun and felicity.


CHAPTER IV.

THE CHILDREN OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES ARE SENT AWAY.

One day all the seven fathers and the seven mothers of the seven families
agreed that they would send their children out to see the world.

So they called them all together, and gave them each eight shillings and
some good advice, some chocolate-drops, and a small green morocco
pocket-book to set down their expenses in.

They then particularly entreated them not to quarrel; and all the parents
sent off their children with a parting injunction.

If, said the old Parrots, you find a cherry, do not fight about who
should have it.

And, said the old Storks, if you find a frog, divide it carefully into
seven bits, but on no account quarrel about it.

And the old Geese said to the seven young Geese, Whatever you do, be sure
you do not touch a plum-pudding flea.

And the old Owls said, If you find a mouse, tear him up into seven slices,
and eat him cheerfully, but without quarrelling.

And the old Guinea Pigs said, Have a care that you eat your lettuces,
should you find any, not greedily, but calmly.

And the old Cats said, Be particularly careful not to meddle with a
clangle-wangle if you should see one.

And the old Fishes said, Above all things, avoid eating a blue boss-woss;
for they do not agree with fishes, and give them a pain in their toes.

So all the children of each family thanked their parents; and, making in
all forty-nine polite bows, they went into the wide world.



CHAPTER V.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG PARROTS.

The seven young Parrots had not gone far, when they saw a tree with a
single cherry on it, which the oldest Parrot picked instantly; but the
other six, being extremely hungry, tried to get it also. On which all the
seven began to fight; and they squeaked, and clawed, and snapped, and bit, and bumped, and thumped,
and dumped, and flumped each other, till they were all torn into little
bits; and at last there was nothing left to record this painful incident
except the cherry and seven small green feathers.

And that was the vicious and voluble end of the seven young Parrots.


CHAPTER VI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG STORKS.

When the seven young Storks set out, they walked or flew for fourteen weeks
in a straight line, and for six weeks more in a crooked one; and after that
they ran as hard as they could for one hundred and eight miles; and after
that they stood still, and made a himmeltanious chatter-clatter-blattery
noise with their bills.

About the same time they perceived a large frog, spotted with green, and
with a sky-blue stripe under each ear.

So, being hungry, they immediately flew at him, and were going to divide
him into seven pieces, when they began to quarrel as to which of his legs
should be taken off first. One said this, and another said that; and while
they were all quarrelling, the frog hopped away. And when they saw that he
was gone, they began to flatter-quatter,
more violently than ever; and after they
had fought for a week, they pecked each other all to little pieces, so that
at last nothing was left of any of them except their bills.

And that was the end of the seven young Storks.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GEESE.

When the seven young Geese began to travel, they went over a large plain,
on which there was but one tree, and that was, a very bad one.

So four of them went up to the top of it, and looked about them; while the
other three waddled up and down, and repeated poetry, and their last six
lessons in arithmetic, geography, and cookery.

Presently they perceived, a long way off, an object of the most interesting
and obese appearance, having a perfectly round body exactly resembling a
boiled plum-pudding, with two little wings, and a beak, and three feathers
growing out of his head, and only one leg.

So, after a time, all the seven young Geese said to each other, Beyond all
doubt this beast must be a Plum-pudding Flea!

On which they incautiously began to sing aloud,


       Plum-pudding Flea,
        Plum-pudding Flea,
        Wherever you be,
        Oh! come to our tree,
    And listen, oh! listen, oh! listen to me!

And no sooner had they sung this verse than the Plum-pudding Flea began to
hop and skip on his one leg with the most dreadful velocity, and came
straight to the tree, where he stopped, and looked about him in a vacant
and voluminous manner.

On which the seven young Geese were greatly alarmed, and all of a
tremble-bemble: so one of them put out his long neck, and just touched him
with the tip of his bill; but no sooner had he done this than the
Plum-pudding Flea skipped and hopped about more and more, and higher and
higher; after which he opened his mouth, and, to the great surprise and
indignation of the seven Geese, began to bark so loudly and furiously and
terribly, that they were totally unable to bear the noise; and by degrees
every one of them suddenly tumbled down quite dead.

So that was the end of the seven young Geese.




CHAPTER VIII.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG OWLS.

When the seven young Owls set out, they sate every now and then on the
branches of old trees, and never went far at one time.

And one night, when it was quite dark, they thought they heard a mouse;
but, as the gas-lamps were not lighted, they could not see him.

So they called out, Is that a mouse?

On which a mouse answered, Squeaky-peeky-weeky! yes, it is!

And immediately all the young Owls threw themselves off the tree, meaning
to alight on the ground; but they did not perceive that there was a large
well below them, into which they all fell superficially, and were every one
of them drowned in less than half a minute.

So that was the end of the seven young Owls.




CHAPTER IX.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GUINEA PIGS.

The seven young Guinea Pigs went into a garden full of goose-berry-bushes
and tiggory-trees, under one of which they fell asleep. When they awoke,
they saw a large lettuce, which had grown out of the ground while they had
been sleeping, and which had an immense number of green leaves. At which
they all exclaimed,--

   Lettuce! O lettuce
    Let us, O let us,
    O lettuce-leaves,
    O let us leave this tree, and eat
    Lettuce, O let us, lettuce-leaves!

And instantly the seven young Guinea Pigs rushed with such extreme force
against the lettuce-plant, and hit their heads so vividly against its
stalk, that the concussion brought on directly an incipient transitional
inflammation of their noses, which grew worse and worse and worse and
worse, till it incidentally killed them all seven.

And that was the end of the seven young Guinea Pigs.




CHAPTER X.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG CATS.

The seven young Cats set off on their travels with great delight and
rapacity. But, on coming to the top of a high hill, they perceived at a
long distance off a Clangle-Wangle or, as it is more properly written,
Clangel-Wangel; and, in spite of the warning they had had, they ran
straight up to it.

Now, the Clangle-Wangle is a most dangerous and delusive beast, and by no
means commonly to be met with. They live in the water as well as on land,
using their long tail as a sail when in the former element. Their speed is
extreme; but their habits of life are domestic and superfluous, and their
general demeanor pensive and pellucid. On summer evenings, they may
sometimes be observed near the Lake Pipple-Popple, standing on their heads,
and humming their national melodies. They subsist entirely on vegetables,
excepting when they eat veal or mutton or pork or beef or fish or
saltpetre.

The moment the Clangle-Wangle saw the seven young Cats approach, he ran
away; and as he ran straight on for four months, and the Cats, though they
continued to run, could never overtake him, they all gradually _died_ of
fatigue and exhaustion, and never afterwards recovered.

And this was the end of the seven young Cats.




CHAPTER XI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG FISHES.

The seven young Fishes swam across the Lake Pipple-Popple, and into the
river, and into the ocean; where, most unhappily for them, they saw, on the
fifteenth day of their travels, a bright-blue Boss-Woss, and instantly swam
after him. But the Blue Boss-Woss plunged into a
    perpendicular,
        spicular,
            orbicular,
                quadrangular,
                     circular depth of soft mud;
where, in fact, his house was.

And the seven young Fishes, swimming with great and uncomfortable velocity,
plunged also into the mud quite against their will, and, not being
accustomed to it, were all suffocated in a very short period.

And that was the end of the seven young Fishes.




CHAPTER XII.

OF WHAT OCCURRED SUBSEQUENTLY.

After it was known that the

            seven young Parrots,
    and the seven young Storks,
    and the seven young Geese,
    and the seven young Owls,
    and the seven young Guinea Pigs,
    and the seven young Cats,
    and the seven young Fishes,

were all dead, then the Frog, and the Plum-pudding Flea, and the Mouse, and
the Clangle-Wangle, and the Blue Boss-Woss, all met together to rejoice
over their good fortune. And they collected the seven feathers of the seven
young Parrots, and the seven bills of the seven young Storks, and the
lettuce, and the cherry; and having placed the latter on the lettuce, and
the other objects in a circular arrangement at their base, they danced a
hornpipe round all these memorials until they were quite tired; after which
they gave a tea-party, and a garden-party, and a ball, and a concert, and
then returned to their respective homes full of joy and respect, sympathy,
satisfaction, and disgust.




CHAPTER XIII.

OF WHAT BECAME OF THE PARENTS OF THE FORTY-NINE CHILDREN.

BUT when the two old Parrots,
     and the two old Storks,
     and the two old Geese,
     and the two old Owls,
     and the two old Guinea Pigs,
     and the two old Cats,
     and the two old Fishes,

became aware, by reading in the newspapers, of the calamitous extinction of
the whole of their families, they refused all further sustenance; and,
sending out to various shops, they purchased great quantities of Cayenne
pepper and brandy and vinegar and blue sealing-wax, besides seven immense
glass bottles with air-tight stoppers. And, having done this, they ate a
light supper of brown-bread and Jerusalem artichokes, and took an
affecting and formal leave of the whole of their acquaintance, which was
very numerous and distinguished and select and responsible and ridiculous.


CHAPTER XIV.

CONCLUSION.

And after this they filled the bottles with the ingredients for pickling,
and each couple jumped into a separate bottle; by which effort, of course,
they all died immediately, and became thoroughly pickled in a few minutes;
having previously made their wills by the assistance of the most eminent
lawyers of the district, in which they left strict orders that the
stoppers of the seven bottles should be carefully sealed up with the blue
sealing-wax they had purchased; and that they themselves, in the bottles,
should be presented to the principal museum of the city of Tosh, to be
labelled with parchment or any other anti-congenial succedaneum, and to be
placed on a marble table with silver-gilt legs, for the daily inspection
and contemplation, and for the perpetual benefit, of the pusillanimous
public.

And if you ever happen to go to Gramble-Blamble, and visit that museum in
the city of Tosh, look for them on the ninety-eighth table in the four
hundred and twenty-seventh room of the right-hand corridor of the left wing
of the central quadrangle of that magnificent building; for, if you do not,
you certainly will not see them.



       *        *        *        *        *




                 NONSENSE COOKERY.

Extract from The Nonsense Gazette, for August, 1870.

Our readers will be interested in the following communications from our
valued and learned contributor, Prof. Bosh, whose labors in the fields of
culinary and botanical science are so well known to all the world. The
first three articles richly merit to be added to the domestic cookery of
every family: those which follow claim the attention of all botanists; and
we are happy to be able, through Dr. Bosh's kindness, to present our
readers with illustrations of his discoveries. All the new flowers are
found in the Valley of Verrikwier, near the Lake of Oddgrow, and on the
summit of the Hill Orfeltugg.



THREE RECEIPTS FOR DOMESTIC COOKERY.


TO MAKE AN AMBLONGUS PIE.

Take 4 pounds say 4-1/2 pounds of fresh Amblongusses, and put them in a
small pipkin.

Cover them with water, and boil them for 8 hours incessantly; after which
add 2 pints of new milk, and proceed to boil for 4 hours more.

When you have ascertained that the Amblongusses are quite soft, take them
out, and place them in a wide pan, taking care to shake them well
previously.

Grate some nutmeg over the surface, and cover them carefully with powdered
gingerbread, curry-powder, and a sufficient quantity of Cayenne pepper.

Remove the pan into the next room, and place it on the floor. Bring it back
again, and let it simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Shake the pan
violently till all the Amblongusses have become of a pale purple color.

Then, having prepared the paste, insert the whole carefully; adding at the
same time a small pigeon, 2 slices of beef, 4 cauliflowers, and any number
of oysters.

Watch patiently till the crust begins to rise, and add a pinch of salt from
time to time.

Serve up in a clean dish, and throw the whole out of window as fast as
possible.


TO MAKE CRUMBOBBLIOUS CUTLETS.

Procure some strips of beef, and, having cut them into the smallest
possible slices, proceed to cut them still smaller,--eight, or perhaps
nine times.

When the whole is thus minced, brush it up hastily with a new
clothes-brush, and stir round rapidly and capriciously with a salt-spoon
or a soup-ladle.

Place the whole in a saucepan, and remove it to a sunny place,--say the
roof of the house, if free from sparrows or other birds,--and leave it
there for about a week.

At the end of that time add a little lavender, some oil of almonds, and a
few herring-bones; and then cover the whole with 4 gallons of clarified
Crumbobblious sauce, when it will be ready for use.

Cut it into the shape of ordinary cutlets, and serve up in a clean
table-cloth or dinner-napkin.


TO MAKE GOSKY PATTIES.

Take a pig three or four years of age, and tie him by the off hind-leg to a
post. Place 5 pounds of currants, 3 of sugar, 2 pecks of peas, 18 roast
chestnuts, a candle, and 6 bushels of turnips, within his reach: if he eats
these, constantly provide him with more.

Then procure some cream, some slices of Cheshire cheese, 4 quires of
foolscap paper, and a packet of black pins. Work the whole into a paste,
and spread it out to dry on a sheet of clean brown waterproof linen.

When the paste is perfectly dry, but not before, proceed to beat the pig
violently with the handle of a large broom. If he squeals, beat him again.

Visit the paste and beat the pig alternately for some days, and ascertain
if, at the end of that period, the whole is about to turn into Gosky
Patties.

If it does not then, it never will; and in that case the pig may be let
loose, and the whole process may be considered as finished.

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE BOTANY.


[Illustration: Baccopipia Gracilis.]

[Illustration: Bottlephorkia Spoonifolia.]

[Illustration: Cockatooca Superba.]

[Illustration: Fishia Marina.]

[Illustration: Guittara Pensilis.]

[Illustration: Manypeeplia Upsidownia.]

[Illustration: Phattfacia Stupenda.]

[Illustration: Piggiwiggia Pyramidalis.]

[Illustration: Plumbunnia Nutritiosa.]

[Illustration: Pollybirdia Singularis.]

       *        *        *        *        *




NONSENSE ALPHABETS.


            A

     

    A was an ant
    Who seldom stood still,
    And who made a nice house
    In the side of a hill.

            a!
     Nice little ant!


            B

     

    B was a book
    With a binding of blue,
    And pictures and stories
    For me and for you.

            b!
     Nice little book!


            C

     

    C was a cat
    Who ran after a rat;
    But his courage did fail
    When she seized on his tail.

            c!
      Crafty old cat!


            D

     

    D was a duck
    With spots on his back,
    Who lived in the water,
    And always said Quack!

            d!
      Dear little duck!


            E

     

    E was an elephant,
    Stately and wise:
    He had tusks and a trunk,
    And two queer little eyes.

            e!
    Oh, what funny small eyes!


            F

     


    F was a fish
    Who was caught in a net;
    But he got out again,
    And is quite alive yet.

            f!
      Lively young fish!


            G

     

    G was a goat
    Who was spotted with brown:
    When he did not lie still
    He walked up and down.

            g!
      Good little goat!


            H

     

    H was a hat
    Which was all on one side;
    Its crown was too high,
    And its brim was too wide.

            h!
      Oh, what a hat!


            I

     

    I was some ice
    So white and so nice,
    But which nobody tasted;
    And so it was wasted.

            i!
    All that good ice!


            J

     


    J was a jackdaw
    Who hopped up and down
    In the principal street
    Of a neighboring town.

            j!
     All through the town!


            K

     

    K was a kite
    Which flew out of sight,
    Above houses so high,
    Quite into the sky.

            k
       Fly away, kite!


            L

     

    L was a light
    Which burned all the night,
    And lighted the gloom
    Of a very dark room.

            l!
     Useful nice light!


            M

     

    M was a mill
    Which stood on a hill,
    And turned round and round
    With a loud hummy sound.

            m!
      Useful old mill!


            N

     

    N was a net
    Which was thrown in the sea
    To catch fish for dinner
    For you and for me.

            n!
      Nice little net!


            O

     

    O was an orange
    So yellow and round:
    When it fell off the tree,
    It fell down to the ground.

            o!
    Down to the ground!


            P

     

    P was a pig,
    Who was not very big;
    But his tail was too curly,
    And that made him surly.

            p!
    Cross little pig!


            Q

     

    Q was a quail
    With a very short tail;
    And he fed upon corn
    In the evening and morn.

            q!
    Quaint little quail!


            R

     

    R was a rabbit,
    Who had a bad habit
    Of eating the flowers
    In gardens and bowers.

            r!
     Naughty fat rabbit!


            S

     

    S was the sugar-tongs,
    Nippity-nee,
    To take up the sugar
    To put in our tea.

            s!
       Nippity-nee!


            T

     

    T was a tortoise,
    All yellow and black:
    He walked slowly away,
    And he never came back.

            t!
    Torty never came back!


            U

     

    U was an urn
    All polished and bright,
    And full of hot water
    At noon and at night.

            u!
     Useful old urn!


            V

     

    V was a villa
    Which stood on a hill,
    By the side of a river,
    And close to a mill.

            v!
    Nice little villa!


            W

     

    W was a whale
    With a very long tail,
    Whose movements were frantic
    Across the Atlantic.

            w!
   Monstrous old whale!


            X

     

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who, more than all Turks, is
    Renowned for his fashion
    Of fury and passion.

            x!
    Angry old Xerxes!


            Y

     

    Y was a yew,
    Which flourished and grew
    By a quiet abode
    Near the side of a road.

            y!
     Dark little yew!


            Z

     

    Z was some zinc,
    So shiny and bright,
    Which caused you to wink
    In the sun's merry light.

            z!
       Beautiful zinc!




            A

     

            a

    A was once an apple-pie,
        Pidy,
        Widy,
        Tidy,
        Pidy,
      Nice insidy,
      Apple-pie!


            B

     

            b

    B was once a little bear,
        Beary,
        Wary,
        Hairy,
        Beary,
      Taky cary,
      Little bear!


            C

     

            c

    C was once a little cake,
        Caky,
        Baky,
        Maky,
        Caky,
      Taky caky,
      Little cake!


            D

     

            d

    D was once a little doll,
        Dolly,
        Molly,
        Polly,
        Nolly,
      Nursy dolly,
      Little doll!


            E

     

            e

    E was once a little eel,
        Eely,
        Weely,
        Peely,
        Eely,
      Twirly, tweely,
        Little eel!



            F

     

            f

    F was once a little fish,
        Fishy,
        Wishy,
        Squishy,
        Fishy,
      In a dishy,
      Little fish!


            G

     

            g

    G was once a little goose,
        Goosy,
        Moosy,
        Boosey,
        Goosey,
      Waddly-woosy,
      Little goose!


            H

     

            h

    H was once a little hen,
        Henny,
        Chenny,
        Tenny,
        Henny.
      Eggsy-any,
      Little hen?


            I

     

            i

    I was once a bottle of ink
        Inky,
        Dinky,
        Thinky,
        Inky,
      Blacky minky,
      Bottle of ink!


            J

     

            j

    J was once a jar of jam,
        Jammy,
        Mammy,
        Clammy,
        Jammy,
      Sweety, swammy,
        Jar of jam!


            K

     

            k

    K was once a little kite,
        Kity,
        Whity,
        Flighty,
        Kity,
      Out of sighty,
        Little kite!


            L

     

            l

    L was once a little lark,
        Larky,
        Marky,
        Harky,
        Larky,
      In the parky,
      Little lark!


            M

     

            m

    M was once a little mouse,
        Mousy,
        Bousy,
        Sousy,
        Mousy,
      In the housy,
      Little mouse!


            N

     

            n

    N was once a little needle,
        Needly,
        Tweedly,
        Threedly,
        Needly,
      Wisky, wheedly,
      Little needle!


            O

     

            o

    O was once a little owl,
        Owly,
        Prowly,
        Howly,
        Owly,
      Browny fowly,
      Little owl!


            P

     

            p

    P was once a little pump,
        Pumpy,
        Slumpy,
        Flumpy,
        Pumpy,
      Dumpy, thumpy,
        Little pump!


            Q

     

            q

    Q was once a little quail,
        Quaily,
        Faily,
        Daily,
        Quaily,
      Stumpy-taily,
      Little quail!


            R

     

            r

    R was once a little rose,
        Rosy,
        Posy,
        Nosy,
        Rosy,
     Blows-y, grows-y,
       Little rose!


            S

     

            s

    S was once a little shrimp,
        Shrimpy,
        Nimpy,
        Flimpy,
        Shrimpy.
     Jumpy, jimpy,
      Little shrimp!


            T

     

            t

    T was once a little thrush,
        Thrushy,
        Hushy,
        Bushy,
        Thrushy,
      Flitty, flushy,
      Little thrush!


            U

     

            u

    U was once a little urn,
           Urny,
           Burny,
           Turny,
           Urny,
      Bubbly, burny,
        Little urn!


            V

     

            v

    V was once a little vine,
        Viny,
        Winy,
        Twiny,
        Viny,
      Twisty-twiny,
      Little vine!


            W

     

            w

    W was once a whale,
        Whaly,
        Scaly,
        Shaly,
        Whaly,
      Tumbly-taily,
      Mighty whale!


            X

     

            x

    X was once a great king Xerxes,
          Xerxy,
          Perxy,
          Turxy,
          Xerxy,
        Linxy, lurxy,
      Great King Xerxes!


            Y

     

            y

    Y was once a little yew,
        Yewdy,
        Fewdy,
        Crudy,
        Yewdy,
    Growdy, grewdy,
      Little yew!


            Z

     

            z

    Z was once a piece of zinc,
        Tinky,
        Winky,
        Blinky,
        Tinky,
      Tinkly minky,
      Piece of zinc!




            A

     

    A was an ape,
    Who stole some white tape,
    And tied up his toes
    In four beautiful bows.

            a!

    Funny old ape!


            B

     

    B was a bat,
    Who slept all the day,
    And fluttered about
    When the sun went away.

            b!

    Brown little bat!


            C

     

    C was a camel:
    You rode on his hump;
    And if you fell off,
    You came down such a bump!


            c!

    What a high camel!


            D

     

    D was a dove,
    Who lived in a wood,
    With such pretty soft wings,
    And so gentle and good!

            d!

    Dear little dove!


            E

     

    E was an eagle,
    Who sat on the rocks,
    And looked down on the fields
    And the-far-away flocks.

            e!

    Beautiful eagle!


            F

     

    F was a fan
    Made of beautiful stuff;
    And when it was used,
    It went puffy-puff-puff!

            f!

    Nice little fan!


            G

     

    G was a gooseberry,
    Perfectly red;
    To be made into jam,
    And eaten with bread.

            g!

    Gooseberry red!


            H

     

    H was a heron,
    Who stood in a stream:
    The length of his neck
    And his legs was extreme.

            h!

    Long-legged heron!


            I

     

    I was an inkstand,
    Which stood on a table,
    With a nice pen to write with
    When we are able.

            i!

    Neat little inkstand!


            J

     

    J was a jug,
    So pretty and white,
    With fresh water in it
    At morning and night.

            j!

    Nice little jug!


            K

     

    K was a kingfisher:
    Quickly he flew,
    So bright and so pretty!--
    Green, purple, and blue.

            k!

    Kingfisher blue!

            L

     

    L was a lily,
    So white and so sweet!
    To see it and smell it
    Was quite a nice treat.

            l!

    Beautiful lily!


            M

     

    M was a man,
    Who walked round and round;
    And he wore a long coat
    That came down to the ground.

            m!

    Funny old man!


            N

     

    N was a nut
    So smooth and so brown!
    And when it was ripe,
    It fell tumble-dum-down.

            n!

    Nice little nut!


            O

     

    O was an oyster,
    Who lived in his shell:
    If you let him alone,
    He felt perfectly well.

            o!

    Open-mouthed oyster!


            P

     

    P was a polly,
    All red, blue, and green,--
    The most beautiful polly
    That ever was seen.

            p!

    Poor little polly!


            Q

     

    Q was a quill
    Made into a pen;
    But I do not know where,
    And I cannot say when.

            q!

    Nice little quill!


            R

     

    R was a rattlesnake,
    Rolled up so tight,
    Those who saw him ran quickly,
    For fear he should bite.

            r!

    Rattlesnake bite!


            S

     

    S was a screw
    To screw down a box;
    And then it was fastened
    Without any locks.

            s!

    Valuable screw!


            T

     

    T was a thimble,
    Of silver so bright!
    When placed on the finger,
    It fitted so tight!

            t!

    Nice little thimble!


            U

     

    U was an upper-coat,
    Woolly and warm,
    To wear over all
    In the snow or the storm.

            u!

    What a nice upper-coat!


            V

     

    V was a veil
    With a border upon it,
    And a ribbon to tie it
    All round a pink bonnet.

            v!

    Pretty green veil!


            W

     

    W was a watch,
    Where, in letters of gold,
    The hour of the day
    You might always behold.

            w!

    Beautiful watch!


            X

     

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who wore on his head
    A mighty large turban,
    Green, yellow, and red.

            x!

    Look at King Xerxes!


            Y

     

    Y was a yak,
    From the land of Thibet:
    Except his white tail,
    He was all black as jet.

            y!

    Look at the yak!


            Z

     

    Z was a zebra,
    All striped white and black;
    And if he were tame,
    You might ride on his back.

            z!

    Pretty striped zebra!


There was an Old Man with an Owl,
Who continued to bother and howl;
He sat on a rail, and imbibed bitter ale,
Which refreshed that Old Man and his Owl.



There was an Old Man in a casement,
Who held up his hands in amazement;
When they said, Sir, you'll fall! he replied, Not at all!
That incipient Old Man in a casement.



There was an Old Person of Ewell,
Who chiefly subsisted on gruel;
But to make it more nice, he inserted some Mice,
Which refreshed that Old Person of Ewell.


There was an Old Lady of Prague,
Whose language was horribly vague;
When they said, Are these caps? she answered, Perhaps!
That oracular Lady of Prague.



There was a Young Lady of Parma,
Whose conduct grew calmer and calmer:
When they said, Are you dumb? she merely said, Hum!
That provoking Young Lady of Parma.


 But when the sun was low in the West,
        The Dong arose and said,--
    What little sense I once possessed
        Has quite gone out of my head!
    And since that day he wanders still
    By lake and forest, marsh and hill,
    Singing, O somewhere, in valley or plain,
    Might I find my Jumbly Girl again!
    For ever I'll seek by lake and shore
    Till I find my Jumbly Girl once more!

        Playing a pipe with silvery squeaks,
        Since then his Jumbly Girl he seeks;
        And because by night he could not see,
        He gathered the bark of the Twangum Tree
          On the flowery plain that grows.
          And he wove him a wondrous Nose,--
        A Nose as strange as a Nose could be!


         And far away in the twilight sky
    We heard them singing a lessening cry,--
    Farther and farther, till out of sight,
    And we stood alone in the silent night!
    Often since, in the nights of June,
    We sit on the sand and watch the moon,--

    She has gone to the great Gromboolian Plain,
    And we probably never shall meet again!
    Oft, in the long still nights of June,
    We sit on the rocks and watch the moon,--
    She dwells by the streams of the Chankly Bore.
    And we probably never shall see her more.
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

 There lived an old man in the Kingdom of Tess,
    Who invented a purely original dress;
    And when it was perfectly made and complete,
    He opened the door and walked into the street.

    By way of a hat he'd a loaf of Brown Bread,
    In the middle of which he inserted his head;
    His Shirt was made up of no end of dead Mice,
    The warmth of whose skins was quite fluffy and nice;
    His Drawers were of Rabbit-skins, so were his Shoes;
    His Stockings were skins, but it is not known whose;
    His Waistcoat and Trowsers were made of Pork Chops;
    His Buttons were Jujubes and Chocolate Drops;
    His Coat was all Pancakes, with Jam for a border,
    And a girdle of Biscuits to keep it in order;
    And he wore over all, as a screen from bad weather,
    A Cloak of green Cabbage-leaves stitched all together.

   ONE winter night, at half-past nine,
         Cold, tired, and cross, and muddy,
   I had come home, too late to dine,
   And supper, with cigars and wine,
         Was waiting in the study.

   There was a strangeness in the room,
         And Something white and wavy
   Was standing near me in the gloom—
   _I_ took it for the carpet-broom
         Left by that careless slavey.

   But presently the Thing began
         To shiver and to sneeze:
   On which I said “Come, come, my man!
   That’s a most inconsiderate plan.
         Less noise there, if you please!

                  [Picture: The Thing standing by chair]

   “I’ve caught a cold, the Thing replies,
         “Out there upon the landing.
   I turned to look in some surprise,
   And there, before my very eyes,
         A little Ghost was standing!

   He trembled when he caught my eye,
         And got behind a chair.
   “How came you here, I said, “and why?
   I never saw a thing so shy.
         Come out!  Don’t shiver there!

   He said “I’d gladly tell you how,
         And also tell you why;
   But (here he gave a little bow)
   “You’re in so bad a temper now,
         You’d think it all a lie.

   “And as to being in a fright,
         Allow me to remark
   That Ghosts have just as good a right
   In every way, to fear the light,
         As Men to fear the dark.

   “No plea, said I, “can well excuse
         Such cowardice in you:
   For Ghosts can visit when they choose,
   Whereas we Humans ca’n’t refuse
         To grant the interview.

   He said “A flutter of alarm
         Is not unnatural, is it?
   I really feared you meant some harm:
   But, now I see that you are calm,
         Let me explain my visit.

   “Houses are classed, I beg to state,
         According to the number
   Of Ghosts that they accommodate:
   (The Tenant merely counts as _weight_,
         With Coals and other lumber).

   “This is a one-ghost’ house, and you
         When you arrived last summer,
   May have remarked a Spectre who
   Was doing all that Ghosts can do
         To welcome the new-comer.

   “In Villas this is always done—
         However cheaply rented:
   For, though of course there’s less of fun
   When there is only room for one,
         Ghosts have to be contented.

   “That Spectre left you on the Third—
         Since then you’ve not been haunted:
   For, as he never sent us word,
   ’Twas quite by accident we heard
         That any one was wanted.

   “A Spectre has first choice, by right,
         In filling up a vacancy;
   Then Phantom, Goblin, Elf, and Sprite—
   If all these fail them, they invite
         The nicest Ghoul that they can see.

   “The Spectres said the place was low,
         And that you kept bad wine:
   So, as a Phantom had to go,
   And I was first, of course, you know,
         I couldn’t well decline.

   “No doubt, said I, “they settled who
         Was fittest to be sent
   Yet still to choose a brat like you,
   To haunt a man of forty-two,
         Was no great compliment!

   “I’m not so young, Sir, he replied,
         “As you might think.  The fact is,
   In caverns by the water-side,
   And other places that I’ve tried,
         I’ve had a lot of practice:

   “But I have never taken yet
         A strict domestic part,
   And in my flurry I forget
   The Five Good Rules of Etiquette
         We have to know by heart.

   My sympathies were warming fast
         Towards the little fellow:
   He was so utterly aghast
   At having found a Man at last,
         And looked so scared and yellow.

                 [Picture: In caverns by the water-side]

   “At least, I said, “I’m glad to find
         A Ghost is not a _dumb_ thing!
   But pray sit down: you’ll feel inclined
   (If, like myself, you have not dined)
         To take a snack of something:

   “Though, certainly, you don’t appear
         A thing to offer _food_ to!
   And then I shall be glad to hear—
   If you will say them loud and clear—
         The Rules that you allude to.

   “Thanks!  You shall hear them by and by.
         This _is_ a piece of luck!
   “What may I offer you? said I.
   “Well, since you _are_ so kind, I’ll try
         A little bit of duck.

   “_One_ slice!  And may I ask you for
         Another drop of gravy?
   I sat and looked at him in awe,
   For certainly I never saw
         A thing so white and wavy.

   And still he seemed to grow more white,
         More vapoury, and wavier—
   Seen in the dim and flickering light,
   As he proceeded to recite
         His “Maxims of Behaviour.

                       [Picture: The Phantom dines]



CANTO II
Hys Fyve Rules


   “MY First—but don’t suppose, he said,
         “I’m setting you a riddle—
   Is—if your Victim be in bed,
   Don’t touch the curtains at his head,
         But take them in the middle,

   “And wave them slowly in and out,
         While drawing them asunder;
   And in a minute’s time, no doubt,
   He’ll raise his head and look about
         With eyes of wrath and wonder.

   “And here you must on no pretence
         Make the first observation.
   Wait for the Victim to commence:
   No Ghost of any common sense
         Begins a conversation.

   [Picture: Ghostly border] “If he should say _How came you here_?’
         (The way that _you_ began, Sir,)
   In such a case your course is clear—
   _On the bat’s back_, _my little dear_!’
         Is the appropriate answer.

   “If after this he says no more,
         You’d best perhaps curtail your
   Exertions—go and shake the door,
   And then, if he begins to snore,
         You’ll know the thing’s a failure.

   “By day, if he should be alone—
         At home or on a walk—
   You merely give a hollow groan,
   To indicate the kind of tone
         In which you mean to talk.

   “But if you find him with his friends,
         The thing is rather harder.
   In such a case success depends
   On picking up some candle-ends,
         Or butter, in the larder.

   “With this you make a kind of slide
         (It answers best with suet),
   On which you must contrive to glide,
   And swing yourself from side to side—
         One soon learns how to do it.

             [Picture: And swing yourself from side to side]

   “The Second tells us what is right
         In ceremonious calls:—
   _First burn a blue or crimson light_’
   (A thing I quite forgot to-night),
         _Then scratch the door or walls_.’

   I said “You’ll visit _here_ no more,
         If you attempt the Guy.
   I’ll have no bonfires on _my_ floor—
   And, as for scratching at the door,
         I’d like to see you try!

   “The Third was written to protect
         The interests of the Victim,
   And tells us, as I recollect,
   _To treat him with a grave respect_,
         _And not to contradict him_.

   “That’s plain, said I, “as Tare and Tret,
         To any comprehension:
   I only wish _some_ Ghosts I’ve met
   Would not so _constantly_ forget
         The maxim that you mention!

   “Perhaps, he said, “_you_ first transgressed
         The laws of hospitality:
   All Ghosts instinctively detest
   The Man that fails to treat his guest
         With proper cordiality.

            [Picture: And then you’re sure to catch it . . .]

   “If you address a Ghost as Thing!’
         Or strike him with a hatchet,
   He is permitted by the King
   To drop all _formal_ parleying—
         And then you’re _sure_ to catch it!

   “The Fourth prohibits trespassing
         Where other Ghosts are quartered:
   And those convicted of the thing
   (Unless when pardoned by the King)
         Must instantly be slaughtered.

   “That simply means be cut up small’:
         Ghosts soon unite anew.
   The process scarcely hurts at all—
   Not more than when _you_ ’re what you call
         Cut up’ by a Review.

   “The Fifth is one you may prefer
         That I should quote entire:—
   _The King must be addressed as_ _Sir_.’
   _This_, _from a simple courtier_,
         _Is all the Laws require_:

   “_But_, _should you wish to do the thing_
         _With out-and-out politeness_,
   _Accost him as_ _My Goblin King_!
   _And always use_, _in answering_,
         _The phrase_ _Your Royal Whiteness_!’

   “I’m getting rather hoarse, I fear,
         After so much reciting:
   So, if you don’t object, my dear,
   We’ll try a glass of bitter beer—
         I think it looks inviting.

               [Picture: We’ll try a glass of bitter beer]



CANTO III
Scarmoges


   “AND did you really walk, said I,
         “On such a wretched night?
   I always fancied Ghosts could fly—
   If not exactly in the sky,
         Yet at a fairish height.

   “It’s very well, said he, “for Kings
         To soar above the earth:
   But Phantoms often find that wings—
   Like many other pleasant things—
         Cost more than they are worth.

   “Spectres of course are rich, and so
         Can buy them from the Elves:
   But _we_ prefer to keep below—
   They’re stupid company, you know,
         For any but themselves:

   “For, though they claim to be exempt
         From pride, they treat a Phantom
   As something quite beneath contempt—
   Just as no Turkey ever dreamt
         Of noticing a Bantam.

                          [Picture: The phantom]

   “They seem too proud, said I, “to go
         To houses such as mine.
   Pray, how did they contrive to know
   So quickly that the place was low,’
         And that I kept bad wine’?

   “Inspector Kobold came to you—
         The little Ghost began.
   Here I broke in—“Inspector who?
   Inspecting Ghosts is something new!
         Explain yourself, my man!

   “His name is Kobold, said my guest:
         “One of the Spectre order:
   You’ll very often see him dressed
   In a yellow gown, a crimson vest,
         And a night-cap with a border.

   “He tried the Brocken business first,
         But caught a sort of chill;
   So came to England to be nursed,
   And here it took the form of _thirst_,
         Which he complains of still.

              [Picture: And here it took the form of thirst]

   “Port-wine, he says, when rich and sound,
         Warms his old bones like nectar:
   And as the inns, where it is found,
   Are his especial hunting-ground,
         We call him the _Inn-Spectre_.

   I bore it—bore it like a man—
         This agonizing witticism!
   And nothing could be sweeter than
   My temper, till the Ghost began
         Some most provoking criticism.

   “Cooks need not be indulged in waste;
         Yet still you’d better teach them
   Dishes should have _some sort_ of taste.
   Pray, why are all the cruets placed
         Where nobody can reach them?

   “That man of yours will never earn
         His living as a waiter!
   Is that queer _thing_ supposed to burn?
   (It’s far too dismal a concern
         To call a Moderator).

   “The duck was tender, but the peas
         Were very much too old:
   And just remember, if you please,
   The _next_ time you have toasted cheese,
         Don’t let them send it cold.

   “You’d find the bread improved, I think,
         By getting better flour:
   And have you anything to drink
   That looks a _little_ less like ink,
         And isn’t _quite_ so sour?

   Then, peering round with curious eyes,
         He muttered “Goodness gracious!
   And so went on to criticise—
   “Your room’s an inconvenient size:
         It’s neither snug nor spacious.

   “That narrow window, I expect,
         Serves but to let the dusk in—
   “But please, said I, “to recollect
   ’Twas fashioned by an architect
         Who pinned his faith on Ruskin!

   “I don’t care who he was, Sir, or
         On whom he pinned his faith!
   Constructed by whatever law,
   So poor a job I never saw,
         As I’m a living Wraith!

   “What a re-markable cigar!
         How much are they a dozen?
   I growled “No matter what they are!
   You’re getting as familiar
         As if you were my cousin!

   “Now that’s a thing _I will not stand_,
         And so I tell you flat.
   “Aha, said he, “we’re getting grand!
   (Taking a bottle in his hand)
         “I’ll soon arrange for _that_!

   And here he took a careful aim,
         And gaily cried “Here goes!
   I tried to dodge it as it came,
   But somehow caught it, all the same,
         Exactly on my nose.

   And I remember nothing more
         That I can clearly fix,
   Till I was sitting on the floor,
   Repeating “Two and five are four,
         But _five and two_ are six.

   What really passed I never learned,
         Nor guessed: I only know
   That, when at last my sense returned,
   The lamp, neglected, dimly burned—
         The fire was getting low—

   Through driving mists I seemed to see
         A Thing that smirked and smiled:
   And found that he was giving me
   A lesson in Biography,
         As if I were a child.



CANTO IV
Hys Nouryture


   “OH, when I was a little Ghost,
         A merry time had we!
   Each seated on his favourite post,
   We chumped and chawed the buttered toast
         They gave us for our tea.

           [Picture: We chumped and chawed the buttered toast]

   “That story is in print! I cried.
         “Don’t say it’s not, because
   It’s known as well as Bradshaw’s Guide!
   (The Ghost uneasily replied
         He hardly thought it was).

   “It’s not in Nursery Rhymes?  And yet
         I almost think it is—
   Three little Ghosteses’ were set
   On posteses,’ you know, and ate
         Their buttered toasteses.’

   “I have the book; so if you doubt it—
         I turned to search the shelf.
   “Don’t stir! he cried.  “We’ll do without it:
   I now remember all about it;
         I wrote the thing myself.

   “It came out in a Monthly,’ or
         At least my agent said it did:
   Some literary swell, who saw
   It, thought it seemed adapted for
         The Magazine he edited.

   “My father was a Brownie, Sir;
         My mother was a Fairy.
   The notion had occurred to her,
   The children would be happier,
         If they were taught to vary.

   “The notion soon became a craze;
         And, when it once began, she
   Brought us all out in different ways—
   One was a Pixy, two were Fays,
         Another was a Banshee;

   “The Fetch and Kelpie went to school
         And gave a lot of trouble;
   Next came a Poltergeist and Ghoul,
   And then two Trolls (which broke the rule),
         A Goblin, and a Double—

   “(If that’s a snuff-box on the shelf,
         He added with a yawn,
   “I’ll take a pinch)—next came an Elf,
   And then a Phantom (that’s myself),
         And last, a Leprechaun.

   [Picture: I stood and watched them in the hall] “One day, some
   Spectres chanced to call,
         Dressed in the usual white:
   I stood and watched them in the hall,
   And couldn’t make them out at all,
         They seemed so strange a sight.

   “I wondered what on earth they were,
         That looked all head and sack;
   But Mother told me not to stare,
   And then she twitched me by the hair,
         And punched me in the back.

   “Since then I’ve often wished that I
         Had been a Spectre born.
   But what’s the use?  (He heaved a sigh.)
   “_They_ are the ghost-nobility,
         And look on _us_ with scorn.

   “My phantom-life was soon begun:
         When I was barely six,
   I went out with an older one—
   And just at first I thought it fun,
         And learned a lot of tricks.

   “I’ve haunted dungeons, castles, towers—
         Wherever I was sent:
   I’ve often sat and howled for hours,
   Drenched to the skin with driving showers,
         Upon a battlement.

   “It’s quite old-fashioned now to groan
         When you begin to speak:
   This is the newest thing in tone—
   And here (it chilled me to the bone)
         He gave an _awful_ squeak.

   “Perhaps, he added, “to _your_ ear
         That sounds an easy thing?
   Try it yourself, my little dear!
   It took _me_ something like a year,
         With constant practising.

   “And when you’ve learned to squeak, my man,
         And caught the double sob,
   You’re pretty much where you began:
   Just try and gibber if you can!
         That’s something _like_ a job!

   “_I’ve_ tried it, and can only say
         I’m sure you couldn’t do it, e-
   ven if you practised night and day,
   Unless you have a turn that way,
         And natural ingenuity.

   “Shakspeare I think it is who treats
         Of Ghosts, in days of old,
   Who gibbered in the Roman streets,’
   Dressed, if you recollect, in sheets—
         They must have found it cold.

   “I’ve often spent ten pounds on stuff,
         In dressing as a Double;
   But, though it answers as a puff,
   It never has effect enough
         To make it worth the trouble.

                    [Picture: In dressing as a Double]

   “Long bills soon quenched the little thirst
         I had for being funny.
   The setting-up is always worst:
   Such heaps of things you want at first,
         One must be made of money!

   “For instance, take a Haunted Tower,
         With skull, cross-bones, and sheet;
   Blue lights to burn (say) two an hour,
   Condensing lens of extra power,
         And set of chains complete:

   “What with the things you have to hire—
         The fitting on the robe—
   And testing all the coloured fire—
   The outfit of itself would tire
         The patience of a Job!

   “And then they’re so fastidious,
         The Haunted-House Committee:
   I’ve often known them make a fuss
   Because a Ghost was French, or Russ,
         Or even from the City!

   “Some dialects are objected to—
         For one, the _Irish_ brogue is:
   And then, for all you have to do,
   One pound a week they offer you,
         And find yourself in Bogies!



CANTO V
Byckerment


   “DON’T they consult the Victims,’ though?
         I said.  “They should, by rights,
   Give them a chance—because, you know,
   The tastes of people differ so,
         Especially in Sprites.

   The Phantom shook his head and smiled.
         “Consult them?  Not a bit!
   ’Twould be a job to drive one wild,
   To satisfy one single child—
         There’d be no end to it!

   “Of course you can’t leave _children_ free,
         Said I, “to pick and choose:
   But, in the case of men like me,
   I think Mine Host’ might fairly be
         Allowed to state his views.

   He said “It really wouldn’t pay—
         Folk are so full of fancies.
   We visit for a single day,
   And whether then we go, or stay,
         Depends on circumstances.

   “And, though we don’t consult Mine Host’
         Before the thing’s arranged,
   Still, if he often quits his post,
   Or is not a well-mannered Ghost,
         Then you can have him changed.

   “But if the host’s a man like you—
         I mean a man of sense;
   And if the house is not too new—
   “Why, what has _that_, said I, “to do
         With Ghost’s convenience?

   “A new house does not suit, you know—
         It’s such a job to trim it:
   But, after twenty years or so,
   The wainscotings begin to go,
         So twenty is the limit.

   “To trim was not a phrase I could
         Remember having heard:
   “Perhaps, I said, “you’ll be so good
   As tell me what is understood
         Exactly by that word?

                 [Picture: The wainscotings begin to go]

   “It means the loosening all the doors,
         The Ghost replied, and laughed:
   “It means the drilling holes by scores
   In all the skirting-boards and floors,
         To make a thorough draught.

   “You’ll sometimes find that one or two
         Are all you really need
   To let the wind come whistling through—
   But _here_ there’ll be a lot to do!
         I faintly gasped “Indeed!

   “If I’d been rather later, I’ll
         Be bound, I added, trying
   (Most unsuccessfully) to smile,
   “You’d have been busy all this while,
         Trimming and beautifying?

   “Why, no, said he; “perhaps I should
         Have stayed another minute—
   But still no Ghost, that’s any good,
   Without an introduction would
         Have ventured to begin it.

   “The proper thing, as you were late,
         Was certainly to go:
   But, with the roads in such a state,
   I got the Knight-Mayor’s leave to wait
         For half an hour or so.

   “Who’s the Knight-Mayor? I cried.  Instead
         Of answering my question,
   “Well, if you don’t know _that_, he said,
   “Either you never go to bed,
         Or you’ve a grand digestion!

   “He goes about and sits on folk
         That eat too much at night:
   His duties are to pinch, and poke,
   And squeeze them till they nearly choke.
         (I said “It serves them right!)

   “And folk who sup on things like these—
         He muttered, “eggs and bacon—
   Lobster—and duck—and toasted cheese—
   If they don’t get an awful squeeze,
         I’m very much mistaken!

   “He is immensely fat, and so
         Well suits the occupation:
   In point of fact, if you must know,
   We used to call him years ago,
         _The Mayor and Corporation_!

                [Picture: He goes about and sits on folk]

   “The day he was elected Mayor
         I _know_ that every Sprite meant
   To vote for _me_, but did not dare—
   He was so frantic with despair
         And furious with excitement.

                    [Picture: He ran to tell the King]

   “When it was over, for a whim,
         He ran to tell the King;
   And being the reverse of slim,
   A two-mile trot was not for him
         A very easy thing.

   “So, to reward him for his run
         (As it was baking hot,
   And he was over twenty stone),
   The King proceeded, half in fun,
         To knight him on the spot.

   “’Twas a great liberty to take!
         (I fired up like a rocket).
   “He did it just for punning’s sake:
   The man,’ says Johnson, that would make
         A pun, would pick a pocket!’

   “A man, said he, “is not a King.
         I argued for a while,
   And did my best to prove the thing—
   The Phantom merely listening
         With a contemptuous smile.

   At last, when, breath and patience spent,
         I had recourse to smoking—
   “Your _aim_, he said, “is excellent:
   But—when you call it _argument_—
         Of course you’re only joking?

                 [Picture: The phantom sitting on chair]

   Stung by his cold and snaky eye,
         I roused myself at length
   To say “At least I do defy
   The veriest sceptic to deny
         That union is strength!

   “That’s true enough, said he, “yet stay—
         I listened in all meekness—
   “_Union_ is strength, I’m bound to say;
   In fact, the thing’s as clear as day;
         But _onions_ are a weakness.



CANTO VI
Dyscomfyture


   AS one who strives a hill to climb,
         Who never climbed before:
   Who finds it, in a little time,
   Grow every moment less sublime,
         And votes the thing a bore:

   Yet, having once begun to try,
         Dares not desert his quest,
   But, climbing, ever keeps his eye
   On one small hut against the sky
         Wherein he hopes to rest:

   Who climbs till nerve and force are spent,
         With many a puff and pant:
   Who still, as rises the ascent,
   In language grows more violent,
         Although in breath more scant:

   Who, climbing, gains at length the place
         That crowns the upward track.
   And, entering with unsteady pace,
   Receives a buffet in the face
         That lands him on his back:

   [Picture: Decorative border of man climbing hall] And feels himself,
   like one in sleep,
         Glide swiftly down again,
   A helpless weight, from steep to steep,
   Till, with a headlong giddy sweep,
         He drops upon the plain—

   So I, that had resolved to bring
         Conviction to a ghost,
   And found it quite a different thing
   From any human arguing,
         Yet dared not quit my post

   But, keeping still the end in view
         To which I hoped to come,
   I strove to prove the matter true
   By putting everything I knew
         Into an axiom:

   Commencing every single phrase
         With therefore’ or because,’
   I blindly reeled, a hundred ways,
   About the syllogistic maze,
         Unconscious where I was.

   Quoth he “That’s regular clap-trap:
         Don’t bluster any more.
   Now _do_ be cool and take a nap!
   Such a ridiculous old chap
         Was never seen before!

   “You’re like a man I used to meet,
         Who got one day so furious
   In arguing, the simple heat
   Scorched both his slippers off his feet!
         I said “_That’s very curious_!

            [Picture: Scorched both his slippers off his feet]

   “Well, it _is_ curious, I agree,
         And sounds perhaps like fibs:
   But still it’s true as true can be—
   As sure as your name’s Tibbs, said he.
         I said “My name’s _not_ Tibbs.

   “_Not_ Tibbs! he cried—his tone became
         A shade or two less hearty—
   “Why, no, said I.  “My proper name
   Is Tibbets—  “Tibbets?  “Aye, the same.
         “Why, then YOU’RE NOT THE PARTY!

   With that he struck the board a blow
         That shivered half the glasses.
   “Why couldn’t you have told me so
   Three quarters of an hour ago,
         You prince of all the asses?

   “To walk four miles through mud and rain,
         To spend the night in smoking,
   And then to find that it’s in vain—
   And I’ve to do it all again—
         It’s really _too_ provoking!

   “Don’t talk! he cried, as I began
         To mutter some excuse.
   “Who can have patience with a man
   That’s got no more discretion than
         An idiotic goose?

            [Picture: To walk four miles through mud and rain]

   “To keep me waiting here, instead
         Of telling me at once
   That this was not the house! he said.
   “There, that’ll do—be off to bed!
         Don’t gape like that, you dunce!

   “It’s very fine to throw the blame
         On _me_ in such a fashion!
   Why didn’t you enquire my name
   The very minute that you came?
         I answered in a passion.

   “Of course it worries you a bit
         To come so far on foot—
   But how was _I_ to blame for it?
   “Well, well! said he.  “I must admit
         That isn’t badly put.

   “And certainly you’ve given me
         The best of wine and victual—
   Excuse my violence, said he,
   “But accidents like this, you see,
         They put one out a little.

   “’Twas _my_ fault after all, I find—
         Shake hands, old Turnip-top!
   The name was hardly to my mind,
   But, as no doubt he meant it kind,
         I let the matter drop.

   “Good-night, old Turnip-top, good-night!
         When I am gone, perhaps
   They’ll send you some inferior Sprite,
   Who’ll keep you in a constant fright
         And spoil your soundest naps.

   “Tell him you’ll stand no sort of trick;
         Then, if he leers and chuckles,
   You just be handy with a stick
   (Mind that it’s pretty hard and thick)
         And rap him on the knuckles!

   “Then carelessly remark Old coon!
         Perhaps you’re not aware
   That, if you don’t behave, you’ll soon
   Be chuckling to another tune—
         And so you’d best take care!’

   “That’s the right way to cure a Sprite
         Of such like goings-on—
   But gracious me!  It’s getting light!
   Good-night, old Turnip-top, good-night!
         A nod, and he was gone.

                           [Picture: The ghost]



CANTO VII
Sad Souvenaunce


                  [Picture: Or can I have been drinking]

   “WHAT’S this? I pondered.  “Have I slept?
         Or can I have been drinking?
   But soon a gentler feeling crept
   Upon me, and I sat and wept
         An hour or so, like winking.

   “No need for Bones to hurry so!
         I sobbed.  “In fact, I doubt
   If it was worth his while to go—
   And who is Tibbs, I’d like to know,
         To make such work about?

   “If Tibbs is anything like me,
         It’s _possible_, I said,
   “He won’t be over-pleased to be
   Dropped in upon at half-past three,
         After he’s snug in bed.

   “And if Bones plagues him anyhow—
         Squeaking and all the rest of it,
   As he was doing here just now—
   _I_ prophesy there’ll be a row,
         And Tibbs will have the best of it!

              [Picture: And Tibbs will have the best of it]

   Then, as my tears could never bring
         The friendly Phantom back,
   It seemed to me the proper thing
   To mix another glass, and sing
         The following Coronach.

   _And art thou gone_, _beloved Ghost_?
         _Best of Familiars_!
   _Nay then_, _farewell_, _my duckling roast_,
   _Farewell_, _farewell_, _my tea and toast_,
         _My meerschaum and cigars_!

   _The hues of life are dull and gray_,
         _The sweets of life insipid_,
   _When_ thou, _my charmer_, _art away_—
   _Old Brick_, _or rather_, _let me say_,
         _Old Parallelepiped_!’

   Instead of singing Verse the Third,
         I ceased—abruptly, rather:
   But, after such a splendid word
   I felt that it would be absurd
         To try it any farther.

   So with a yawn I went my way
         To seek the welcome downy,
   And slept, and dreamed till break of day
   Of Poltergeist and Fetch and Fay
         And Leprechaun and Brownie!

   For years I’ve not been visited
         By any kind of Sprite;
   Yet still they echo in my head,
   Those parting words, so kindly said,
         “Old Turnip-top, good-night!

                           [Picture: The ghost]




ECHOES


         LADY Clara Vere de Vere
         Was eight years old, she said:
   Every ringlet, lightly shaken, ran itself in golden thread.

         She took her little porringer:
         Of me she shall not win renown:
   For the baseness of its nature shall have strength to drag her down.

         “Sisters and brothers, little Maid?
         There stands the Inspector at thy door:
   Like a dog, he hunts for boys who know not two and two are four.

         “Kind words are more than coronets,
         She said, and wondering looked at me:
   “It is the dead unhappy night, and I must hurry home to tea.




A SEA DIRGE


                  [Picture: The sea, beach and children]

   THERE are certain things—as, a spider, a ghost,
      The income-tax, gout, an umbrella for three—
   That I hate, but the thing that I hate the most
      Is a thing they call the Sea.

   Pour some salt water over the floor—
      Ugly I’m sure you’ll allow it to be:
   Suppose it extended a mile or more,
      _That’s_ very like the Sea.

   Beat a dog till it howls outright—
      Cruel, but all very well for a spree:
   Suppose that he did so day and night,
      _That_ would be like the Sea.

   I had a vision of nursery-maids;
      Tens of thousands passed by me—
   All leading children with wooden spades,
      And this was by the Sea.

   Who invented those spades of wood?
      Who was it cut them out of the tree?
   None, I think, but an idiot could—
      Or one that loved the Sea.

   It is pleasant and dreamy, no doubt, to float
      With thoughts as boundless, and souls as free’:
   But, suppose you are very unwell in the boat,
      How do you like the Sea?

                    [Picture: And this was by the sea]

   There is an insect that people avoid
      (Whence is derived the verb to flee’).
   Where have you been by it most annoyed?
      In lodgings by the Sea.

   If you like your coffee with sand for dregs,
      A decided hint of salt in your tea,
   And a fishy taste in the very eggs—
      By all means choose the Sea.

   And if, with these dainties to drink and eat,
      You prefer not a vestige of grass or tree,
   And a chronic state of wet in your feet,
      Then—I recommend the Sea.

   For _I_ have friends who dwell by the coast—
      Pleasant friends they are to me!
   It is when I am with them I wonder most
      That anyone likes the Sea.

   They take me a walk: though tired and stiff,
      To climb the heights I madly agree;
   And, after a tumble or so from the cliff,
      They kindly suggest the Sea.

   I try the rocks, and I think it cool
      That they laugh with such an excess of glee,
   As I heavily slip into every pool
      That skirts the cold cold Sea.

                [Picture: As I heavily slip into every pool]




Ye Carpette Knyghte


   I have a horse—a ryghte good horse—
      Ne doe Y envye those
   Who scoure ye playne yn headye course
      Tyll soddayne on theyre nose
   They lyghte wyth unexpected force
      Yt ys—a horse of clothes.

   I have a saddel—“Say’st thou soe?
      Wyth styrruppes, Knyghte, to boote?
   I sayde not that—I answere “Noe—
      Yt lacketh such, I woote:
   Yt ys a mutton-saddel, loe!
      Parte of ye fleecye brute.

   I have a bytte—a ryghte good bytte—
      As shall bee seene yn tyme.
   Ye jawe of horse yt wyll not fytte;
      Yts use ys more sublyme.
   Fayre Syr, how deemest thou of yt?
      Yt ys—thys bytte of rhyme.

                        [Picture: I have a horse]




HIAWATHA’S PHOTOGRAPHING


[In an age of imitation, I can claim no special merit for this slight
attempt at doing what is known to be so easy.  Any fairly practised
writer, with the slightest ear for rhythm, could compose, for hours
together, in the easy running metre of The Song of Hiawatha.’  Having,
then, distinctly stated that I challenge no attention in the following
little poem to its merely verbal jingle, I must beg the candid reader to
confine his criticism to its treatment of the subject.]

   FROM his shoulder Hiawatha
   Took the camera of rosewood,
   Made of sliding, folding rosewood;
   Neatly put it all together.
   In its case it lay compactly,
   Folded into nearly nothing;
   But he opened out the hinges,
   Pushed and pulled the joints and hinges,
   Till it looked all squares and oblongs,
   Like a complicated figure
   In the Second Book of Euclid.

                          [Picture: The camera]

      This he perched upon a tripod—
   Crouched beneath its dusky cover—
   Stretched his hand, enforcing silence—
   Said, “Be motionless, I beg you!
   Mystic, awful was the process.
      All the family in order
   Sat before him for their pictures:
   Each in turn, as he was taken,
   Volunteered his own suggestions,
   His ingenious suggestions.
      First the Governor, the Father:
   He suggested velvet curtains
   Looped about a massy pillar;
   And the corner of a table,
   Of a rosewood dining-table.
   He would hold a scroll of something,
   Hold it firmly in his left-hand;
   He would keep his right-hand buried
   (Like Napoleon) in his waistcoat;
   He would contemplate the distance
   With a look of pensive meaning,
   As of ducks that die ill tempests.
      Grand, heroic was the notion:
   Yet the picture failed entirely:
   Failed, because he moved a little,
   Moved, because he couldn’t help it.

                [Picture: First the Governor, the Father]

      Next, his better half took courage;
   _She_ would have her picture taken.
   She came dressed beyond description,
   Dressed in jewels and in satin
   Far too gorgeous for an empress.
   Gracefully she sat down sideways,
   With a simper scarcely human,
   Holding in her hand a bouquet
   Rather larger than a cabbage.
   All the while that she was sitting,
   Still the lady chattered, chattered,
   Like a monkey in the forest.
   “Am I sitting still? she asked him.
   “Is my face enough in profile?
   Shall I hold the bouquet higher?
   Will it came into the picture?
   And the picture failed completely.

               [Picture: Next the Son, the Stunning-Cantab]

      Next the Son, the Stunning-Cantab:
   He suggested curves of beauty,
   Curves pervading all his figure,
   Which the eye might follow onward,
   Till they centered in the breast-pin,
   Centered in the golden breast-pin.
   He had learnt it all from Ruskin
   (Author of The Stones of Venice,’
   Seven Lamps of Architecture,’
   Modern Painters,’ and some others);
   And perhaps he had not fully
   Understood his author’s meaning;
   But, whatever was the reason,
   All was fruitless, as the picture
   Ended in an utter failure.

                [Picture: Next to him the eldest daughter]

      Next to him the eldest daughter:
   She suggested very little,
   Only asked if he would take her
   With her look of passive beauty.’
      Her idea of passive beauty
   Was a squinting of the left-eye,
   Was a drooping of the right-eye,
   Was a smile that went up sideways
   To the corner of the nostrils.
      Hiawatha, when she asked him,
   Took no notice of the question,
   Looked as if he hadn’t heard it;
   But, when pointedly appealed to,
   Smiled in his peculiar manner,
   Coughed and said it didn’t matter,’
   Bit his lip and changed the subject.
      Nor in this was he mistaken,
   As the picture failed completely.
      So in turn the other sisters.

               [Picture: Last, the youngest son was taken]

      Last, the youngest son was taken:
   Very rough and thick his hair was,
   Very round and red his face was,
   Very dusty was his jacket,
   Very fidgety his manner.
   And his overbearing sisters
   Called him names he disapproved of:
   Called him Johnny, Daddy’s Darling,’
   Called him Jacky, Scrubby School-boy.’
   And, so awful was the picture,
   In comparison the others
   Seemed, to one’s bewildered fancy,
   To have partially succeeded.
      Finally my Hiawatha
   Tumbled all the tribe together,
   (Grouped’ is not the right expression),
   And, as happy chance would have it
   Did at last obtain a picture
   Where the faces all succeeded:
   Each came out a perfect likeness.
      Then they joined and all abused it,
   Unrestrainedly abused it,
   As the worst and ugliest picture
   They could possibly have dreamed of.
   Giving one such strange expressions—
   Sullen, stupid, pert expressions.
   Really any one would take us
   (Any one that did not know us)
   For the most unpleasant people!’
   (Hiawatha seemed to think so,
   Seemed to think it not unlikely).
   All together rang their voices,
   Angry, loud, discordant voices,
   As of dogs that howl in concert,
   As of cats that wail in chorus.
      But my Hiawatha’s patience,
   His politeness and his patience,
   Unaccountably had vanished,
   And he left that happy party.
   Neither did he leave them slowly,
   With the calm deliberation,
   The intense deliberation
   Of a photographic artist:
   But he left them in a hurry,
   Left them in a mighty hurry,
   Stating that he would not stand it,
   Stating in emphatic language
   What he’d be before he’d stand it.
   Hurriedly he packed his boxes:
   Hurriedly the porter trundled
   On a barrow all his boxes:
   Hurriedly he took his ticket:
   Hurriedly the train received him:
   Thus departed Hiawatha.

                    [Picture: Thus departed Hiawatha]




MELANCHOLETTA


   WITH saddest music all day long
      She soothed her secret sorrow:
   At night she sighed “I fear ’twas wrong
      Such cheerful words to borrow.
   Dearest, a sweeter, sadder song
      I’ll sing to thee to-morrow.

   I thanked her, but I could not say
      That I was glad to hear it:
   I left the house at break of day,
      And did not venture near it
   Till time, I hoped, had worn away
      Her grief, for nought could cheer it!

                      [Picture: At night she signed]

   My dismal sister!  Couldst thou know
      The wretched home thou keepest!
   Thy brother, drowned in daily woe,
      Is thankful when thou sleepest;
   For if I laugh, however low,
      When thou’rt awake, thou weepest!

   I took my sister t’other day
      (Excuse the slang expression)
   To Sadler’s Wells to see the play
      In hopes the new impression
   Might in her thoughts, from grave to gay
      Effect some slight digression.

   I asked three gay young dogs from town
      To join us in our folly,
   Whose mirth, I thought, might serve to drown
      My sister’s melancholy:
   The lively Jones, the sportive Brown,
      And Robinson the jolly.

   The maid announced the meal in tones
      That I myself had taught her,
   Meant to allay my sister’s moans
      Like oil on troubled water:
   I rushed to Jones, the lively Jones,
      And begged him to escort her.

   Vainly he strove, with ready wit,
      To joke about the weather—
   To ventilate the last _on dit_’—
      To quote the price of leather—
   She groaned “Here I and Sorrow sit:
      Let us lament together!

   I urged “You’re wasting time, you know:
      Delay will spoil the venison.
   “My heart is wasted with my woe!
      There is no rest—in Venice, on
   The Bridge of Sighs! she quoted low
      From Byron and from Tennyson.

   I need not tell of soup and fish
      In solemn silence swallowed,
   The sobs that ushered in each dish,
      And its departure followed,
   Nor yet my suicidal wish
      To _be_ the cheese I hollowed.

   Some desperate attempts were made
      To start a conversation;
   “Madam, the sportive Brown essayed,
      “Which kind of recreation,
   Hunting or fishing, have you made
      Your special occupation?

   Her lips curved downwards instantly,
      As if of india-rubber.
   “Hounds _in full cry_ I like, said she:
      (Oh how I longed to snub her!)
   “Of fish, a whale’s the one for me,
      _It is so full of blubber_!

   The night’s performance was “King John.
      “It’s dull, she wept, “and so-so!
   Awhile I let her tears flow on,
      She said they soothed her woe so!
   At length the curtain rose upon
      Bombastes Furioso.’

   In vain we roared; in vain we tried
      To rouse her into laughter:
   Her pensive glances wandered wide
      From orchestra to rafter—
   “_Tier upon tier_! she said, and sighed;
      And silence followed after.

                     [Picture: Sighing at the table]




A VALENTINE


[Sent to a friend who had complained that I was glad enough to see him
when he came, but didn’t seem to miss him if he stayed away.]

   And cannot pleasures, while they last,
   Be actual unless, when past,
   They leave us shuddering and aghast,
         With anguish smarting?
   And cannot friends be firm and fast,
         And yet bear parting?

   And must I then, at Friendship’s call,
   Calmly resign the little all
   (Trifling, I grant, it is and small)
         I have of gladness,
   And lend my being to the thrall
         Of gloom and sadness?

   And think you that I should be dumb,
   And full _dolorum omnium_,
   Excepting when _you_ choose to come
         And share my dinner?
   At other times be sour and glum
         And daily thinner?

   Must he then only live to weep,
   Who’d prove his friendship true and deep
   By day a lonely shadow creep,
         At night-time languish,
   Oft raising in his broken sleep
         The moan of anguish?

   The lover, if for certain days
   His fair one be denied his gaze,
   Sinks not in grief and wild amaze,
         But, wiser wooer,
   He spends the time in writing lays,
         And posts them to her.

   And if the verse flow free and fast,
   Till even the poet is aghast,
   A touching Valentine at last
         The post shall carry,
   When thirteen days are gone and past
         Of February.

   Farewell, dear friend, and when we meet,
   In desert waste or crowded street,
   Perhaps before this week shall fleet,
         Perhaps to-morrow.
   I trust to find _your_ heart the seat
         Of wasting sorrow.




THE THREE VOICES


The First Voice


   HE trilled a carol fresh and free,
   He laughed aloud for very glee:
   There came a breeze from off the sea:

             [Picture: There came a breeze from off the sea]

   It passed athwart the glooming flat—
   It fanned his forehead as he sat—
   It lightly bore away his hat,

   All to the feet of one who stood
   Like maid enchanted in a wood,
   Frowning as darkly as she could.

   With huge umbrella, lank and brown,
   Unerringly she pinned it down,
   Right through the centre of the crown.

   Then, with an aspect cold and grim,
   Regardless of its battered rim,
   She took it up and gave it him.

   A while like one in dreams he stood,
   Then faltered forth his gratitude
   In words just short of being rude:

   For it had lost its shape and shine,
   And it had cost him four-and-nine,
   And he was going out to dine.

                 [Picture: Unerringly she pinned it down]

   “To dine! she sneered in acid tone.
   “To bend thy being to a bone
   Clothed in a radiance not its own!

   The tear-drop trickled to his chin:
   There was a meaning in her grin
   That made him feel on fire within.

   “Term it not radiance,’ said he:
   “’Tis solid nutriment to me.
   Dinner is Dinner: Tea is Tea.

   And she “Yea so?  Yet wherefore cease?
   Let thy scant knowledge find increase.
   Say Men are Men, and Geese are Geese.’

   He moaned: he knew not what to say.
   The thought “That I could get away!
   Strove with the thought “But I must stay.

   “To dine! she shrieked in dragon-wrath.
   “To swallow wines all foam and froth!
   To simper at a table-cloth!

   “Say, can thy noble spirit stoop
   To join the gormandising troup
   Who find a solace in the soup?

   “Canst thou desire or pie or puff?
   Thy well-bred manners were enough,
   Without such gross material stuff.

   “Yet well-bred men, he faintly said,
   “Are not willing to be fed:
   Nor are they well without the bread.

   Her visage scorched him ere she spoke:
   “There are, she said, “a kind of folk
   Who have no horror of a joke.

   “Such wretches live: they take their share
   Of common earth and common air:
   We come across them here and there:

   “We grant them—there is no escape—
   A sort of semi-human shape
   Suggestive of the man-like Ape.

   “In all such theories, said he,
   “One fixed exception there must be.
   That is, the Present Company.

   Baffled, she gave a wolfish bark:
   He, aiming blindly in the dark,
   With random shaft had pierced the mark.

   She felt that her defeat was plain,
   Yet madly strove with might and main
   To get the upper hand again.

   Fixing her eyes upon the beach,
   As though unconscious of his speech,
   She said “Each gives to more than each.

   He could not answer yea or nay:
   He faltered “Gifts may pass away.
   Yet knew not what he meant to say.

   “If that be so, she straight replied,
   “Each heart with each doth coincide.
   What boots it?  For the world is wide.

               [Picture: He faltered “Gifts may pass away]

   “The world is but a Thought, said he:
   “The vast unfathomable sea
   Is but a Notion—unto me.

   And darkly fell her answer dread
   Upon his unresisting head,
   Like half a hundredweight of lead.

   “The Good and Great must ever shun
   That reckless and abandoned one
   Who stoops to perpetrate a pun.

   “The man that smokes—that reads the _Times_—
   That goes to Christmas Pantomimes—
   Is capable of _any_ crimes!

   He felt it was his turn to speak,
   And, with a shamed and crimson cheek,
   Moaned “This is harder than Bezique!

   But when she asked him “Wherefore so?
   He felt his very whiskers glow,
   And frankly owned “I do not know.

                 [Picture: This is harder than Bezique!]

   While, like broad waves of golden grain,
   Or sunlit hues on cloistered pane,
   His colour came and went again.

   Pitying his obvious distress,
   Yet with a tinge of bitterness,
   She said “The More exceeds the Less.

   “A truth of such undoubted weight,
   He urged, “and so extreme in date,
   It were superfluous to state.

   Roused into sudden passion, she
   In tone of cold malignity:
   “To others, yea: but not to thee.

   But when she saw him quail and quake,
   And when he urged “For pity’s sake!
   Once more in gentle tones she spake.

   “Thought in the mind doth still abide
   That is by Intellect supplied,
   And within that Idea doth hide:

   “And he, that yearns the truth to know,
   Still further inwardly may go,
   And find Idea from Notion flow:

   “And thus the chain, that sages sought,
   Is to a glorious circle wrought,
   For Notion hath its source in Thought.

   So passed they on with even pace:
   Yet gradually one might trace
   A shadow growing on his face.

                 [Picture: A shadow growing on his face]



The Second Voice


            [Picture: They walked beside the wave-worn beach]

   They walked beside the wave-worn beach;
   Her tongue was very apt to teach,
   And now and then he did beseech

   She would abate her dulcet tone,
   Because the talk was all her own,
   And he was dull as any drone.

   She urged “No cheese is made of chalk:
   And ceaseless flowed her dreary talk,
   Tuned to the footfall of a walk.

   Her voice was very full and rich,
   And, when at length she asked him “Which?
   It mounted to its highest pitch.

   He a bewildered answer gave,
   Drowned in the sullen moaning wave,
   Lost in the echoes of the cave.

   He answered her he knew not what:
   Like shaft from bow at random shot,
   He spoke, but she regarded not.

   She waited not for his reply,
   But with a downward leaden eye
   Went on as if he were not by

   Sound argument and grave defence,
   Strange questions raised on “Why? and “Whence?
   And wildly tangled evidence.

   When he, with racked and whirling brain,
   Feebly implored her to explain,
   She simply said it all again.

   Wrenched with an agony intense,
   He spake, neglecting Sound and Sense,
   And careless of all consequence:

   “Mind—I believe—is Essence—Ent—
   Abstract—that is—an Accident—
   Which we—that is to say—I meant—

   When, with quick breath and cheeks all flushed,
   At length his speech was somewhat hushed,
   She looked at him, and he was crushed.

   It needed not her calm reply:
   She fixed him with a stony eye,
   And he could neither fight nor fly.

   While she dissected, word by word,
   His speech, half guessed at and half heard,
   As might a cat a little bird.

             [Picture: He spake, neglecting Sound and Sense]

   Then, having wholly overthrown
   His views, and stripped them to the bone,
   Proceeded to unfold her own.

   “Shall Man be Man?  And shall he miss
   Of other thoughts no thought but this,
   Harmonious dews of sober bliss?

   “What boots it?  Shall his fevered eye
   Through towering nothingness descry
   The grisly phantom hurry by?

   “And hear dumb shrieks that fill the air;
   See mouths that gape, and eyes that stare
   And redden in the dusky glare?

   “The meadows breathing amber light,
   The darkness toppling from the height,
   The feathery train of granite Night?

   “Shall he, grown gray among his peers,
   Through the thick curtain of his tears
   Catch glimpses of his earlier years,

                       [Picture: Shall Man be Man?]

   “And hear the sounds he knew of yore,
   Old shufflings on the sanded floor,
   Old knuckles tapping at the door?

   “Yet still before him as he flies
   One pallid form shall ever rise,
   And, bodying forth in glassy eyes

   “The vision of a vanished good,
   Low peering through the tangled wood,
   Shall freeze the current of his blood.

   Still from each fact, with skill uncouth
   And savage rapture, like a tooth
   She wrenched some slow reluctant truth.

   Till, like a silent water-mill,
   When summer suns have dried the rill,
   She reached a full stop, and was still.

   Dead calm succeeded to the fuss,
   As when the loaded omnibus
   Has reached the railway terminus:

   When, for the tumult of the street,
   Is heard the engine’s stifled beat,
   The velvet tread of porters’ feet.

   With glance that ever sought the ground,
   She moved her lips without a sound,
   And every now and then she frowned.

   He gazed upon the sleeping sea,
   And joyed in its tranquillity,
   And in that silence dead, but she

   To muse a little space did seem,
   Then, like the echo of a dream,
   Harked back upon her threadbare theme.

   Still an attentive ear he lent
   But could not fathom what she meant:
   She was not deep, nor eloquent.

   He marked the ripple on the sand:
   The even swaying of her hand
   Was all that he could understand.

   He saw in dreams a drawing-room,
   Where thirteen wretches sat in gloom,
   Waiting—he thought he knew for whom:

   He saw them drooping here and there,
   Each feebly huddled on a chair,
   In attitudes of blank despair:

   Oysters were not more mute than they,
   For all their brains were pumped away,
   And they had nothing more to say—

   Save one, who groaned “Three hours are gone!
   Who shrieked “We’ll wait no longer, John!
   Tell them to set the dinner on!

   The vision passed: the ghosts were fled:
   He saw once more that woman dread:
   He heard once more the words she said.

   He left her, and he turned aside:
   He sat and watched the coming tide
   Across the shores so newly dried.

              [Picture: He sat and watched the coming tide]

   He wondered at the waters clear,
   The breeze that whispered in his ear,
   The billows heaving far and near,

   And why he had so long preferred
   To hang upon her every word:
   “In truth, he said, “it was absurd.

                            [Picture: He sits]



The Third Voice


            [Picture: Quick tears were raining down his face]

   Not long this transport held its place:
   Within a little moment’s space
   Quick tears were raining down his face

   His heart stood still, aghast with fear;
   A wordless voice, nor far nor near,
   He seemed to hear and not to hear.

   “Tears kindle not the doubtful spark.
   If so, why not?  Of this remark
   The bearings are profoundly dark.

   “Her speech, he said, “hath caused this pain.
   Easier I count it to explain
   The jargon of the howling main,

   “Or, stretched beside some babbling brook,
   To con, with inexpressive look,
   An unintelligible book.

   Low spake the voice within his head,
   In words imagined more than said,
   Soundless as ghost’s intended tread:

   “If thou art duller than before,
   Why quittedst thou the voice of lore?
   Why not endure, expecting more?

   “Rather than that, he groaned aghast,
   “I’d writhe in depths of cavern vast,
   Some loathly vampire’s rich repast.

                       [Picture: He groaned aghast]

   “’Twere hard, it answered, “themes immense
   To coop within the narrow fence
   That rings _thy_ scant intelligence.

   “Not so, he urged, “nor once alone:
   But there was something in her tone
   That chilled me to the very bone.

   “Her style was anything but clear,
   And most unpleasantly severe;
   Her epithets were very queer.

   “And yet, so grand were her replies,
   I could not choose but deem her wise;
   I did not dare to criticise;

   “Nor did I leave her, till she went
   So deep in tangled argument
   That all my powers of thought were spent.

   A little whisper inly slid,
   “Yet truth is truth: you know you did.
   A little wink beneath the lid.

   And, sickened with excess of dread,
   Prone to the dust he bent his head,
   And lay like one three-quarters dead

   The whisper left him—like a breeze
   Lost in the depths of leafy trees—
   Left him by no means at his ease.

   Once more he weltered in despair,
   With hands, through denser-matted hair,
   More tightly clenched than then they were.

   When, bathed in Dawn of living red,
   Majestic frowned the mountain head,
   “Tell me my fault, was all he said.

   When, at high Noon, the blazing sky
   Scorched in his head each haggard eye,
   Then keenest rose his weary cry.

   And when at Eve the unpitying sun
   Smiled grimly on the solemn fun,
   “Alack, he sighed, “what _have_ I done?

                 [Picture: Tortured, unaided, and alone]

   But saddest, darkest was the sight,
   When the cold grasp of leaden Night
   Dashed him to earth, and held him tight.

   Tortured, unaided, and alone,
   Thunders were silence to his groan,
   Bagpipes sweet music to its tone:

   “What?  Ever thus, in dismal round,
   Shall Pain and Mystery profound
   Pursue me like a sleepless hound,

   “With crimson-dashed and eager jaws,
   Me, still in ignorance of the cause,
   Unknowing what I broke of laws?

   The whisper to his ear did seem
   Like echoed flow of silent stream,
   Or shadow of forgotten dream,

   The whisper trembling in the wind:
   “Her fate with thine was intertwined,
   So spake it in his inner mind:

                [Picture: a scared dullard, gibbering low]

   “Each orbed on each a baleful star:
   Each proved the other’s blight and bar:
   Each unto each were best, most far:

   “Yea, each to each was worse than foe:
   Thou, a scared dullard, gibbering low,
   AND SHE, AN AVALANCHE OF WOE!




TÈMA CON VARIAZIÒNI


[Why is it that Poetry has never yet been subjected to that process of
Dilution which has proved so advantageous to her sister-art Music?  The
Diluter gives us first a few notes of some well-known Air, then a dozen
bars of his own, then a few more notes of the Air, and so on alternately:
thus saving the listener, if not from all risk of recognising the melody
at all, at least from the too-exciting transports which it might produce
in a more concentrated form.  The process is termed “setting by
Composers, and any one, that has ever experienced the emotion of being
unexpectedly set down in a heap of mortar, will recognise the
truthfulness of this happy phrase.

For truly, just as the genuine Epicure lingers lovingly over a morsel of
supreme Venison—whose every fibre seems to murmur “Excelsior!—yet
swallows, ere returning to the toothsome dainty, great mouthfuls of
oatmeal-porridge and winkles: and just as the perfect Connoisseur in
Claret permits himself but one delicate sip, and then tosses off a pint
or more of boarding-school beer: so also—

   I NEVER loved a dear Gazelle—
      _Nor anything that cost me much_:
   _High prices profit those who sell_,
      _But why should I be fond of such_?

   To glad me with his soft black eye
      _My son comes trotting home from school_;
   _He’s had a fight but can’t tell why_—
      _He always was a little fool_!

   But, when he came to know me well,
      _He kicked me out_, _her testy Sire_:
   _And when I stained my hair_, _that Belle_
      _Might note the change_, _and thus admire_

   And love me, it was sure to dye
      _A muddy green or staring blue_:
   _Whilst one might trace_, _with half an eye_,
      _The still triumphant carrot through_.




A GAME OF FIVES


                       [Picture: Five little girls]

   FIVE little girls, of Five, Four, Three, Two, One:
   Rolling on the hearthrug, full of tricks and fun.

   Five rosy girls, in years from Ten to Six:
   Sitting down to lessons—no more time for tricks.

   Five growing girls, from Fifteen to Eleven:
   Music, Drawing, Languages, and food enough for seven!

                  [Picture: Now tell me which you mean]

   Five winsome girls, from Twenty to Sixteen:
   Each young man that calls, I say “Now tell me which you _mean_!

   Five dashing girls, the youngest Twenty-one:
   But, if nobody proposes, what is there to be done?

   Five showy girls—but Thirty is an age
   When girls may be _engaging_, but they somehow don’t _engage_.

   Five dressy girls, of Thirty-one or more:
   So gracious to the shy young men they snubbed so much before!

                                   * * * *

   Five _passé_ girls—Their age?  Well, never mind!
   We jog along together, like the rest of human kind:
   But the quondam “careless bachelor begins to think he knows
   The answer to that ancient problem “how the money goes!




POETA FIT, NON NASCITUR


                    [Picture: Child on old man’s knee]

   “How shall I be a poet?
      How shall I write in rhyme?
   You told me once the very wish
      Partook of the sublime.’
   Then tell me how!  Don’t put me off
      With your another time’!

   The old man smiled to see him,
      To hear his sudden sally;
   He liked the lad to speak his mind
      Enthusiastically;
   And thought “There’s no hum-drum in him,
      Nor any shilly-shally.

   “And would you be a poet
      Before you’ve been to school?
   Ah, well!  I hardly thought you
      So absolute a fool.
   First learn to be spasmodic—
      A very simple rule.

   “For first you write a sentence,
      And then you chop it small;
   Then mix the bits, and sort them out
      Just as they chance to fall:
   The order of the phrases makes
      No difference at all.

   “Then, if you’d be impressive,
      Remember what I say,
   That abstract qualities begin
      With capitals alway:
   The True, the Good, the Beautiful—
      Those are the things that pay!

   “Next, when you are describing
      A shape, or sound, or tint;
   Don’t state the matter plainly,
      But put it in a hint;
   And learn to look at all things
      With a sort of mental squint.

   “For instance, if I wished, Sir,
      Of mutton-pies to tell,
   Should I say dreams of fleecy flocks
      Pent in a wheaten cell’?
   “Why, yes, the old man said: “that phrase
      Would answer very well.

   “Then fourthly, there are epithets
      That suit with any word—
   As well as Harvey’s Reading Sauce
      With fish, or flesh, or bird—
   Of these, wild,’ lonely,’ weary,’ strange,’
      Are much to be preferred.

   “And will it do, O will it do
      To take them in a lump—
   As the wild man went his weary way
      To a strange and lonely pump’?
   “Nay, nay!  You must not hastily
      To such conclusions jump.

                [Picture: The wild man went his weary way]

   “Such epithets, like pepper,
      Give zest to what you write;
   And, if you strew them sparely,
      They whet the appetite:
   But if you lay them on too thick,
      You spoil the matter quite!

   “Last, as to the arrangement:
      Your reader, you should show him,
   Must take what information he
      Can get, and look for no im-
   mature disclosure of the drift
      And purpose of your poem.

   “Therefore, to test his patience—
      How much he can endure—
   Mention no places, names, or dates,
      And evermore be sure
   Throughout the poem to be found
      Consistently obscure.

   “First fix upon the limit
      To which it shall extend:
   Then fill it up with Padding’
      (Beg some of any friend):
   Your great SENSATION-STANZA
      You place towards the end.

   “And what is a Sensation,
      Grandfather, tell me, pray?
   I think I never heard the word
      So used before to-day:
   Be kind enough to mention one
      _Exempli gratiâ_.’

   And the old man, looking sadly
      Across the garden-lawn,
   Where here and there a dew-drop
      Yet glittered in the dawn,
   Said “Go to the Adelphi,
      And see the Colleen Bawn.’

   “The word is due to Boucicault—
      The theory is his,
   Where Life becomes a Spasm,
      And History a Whiz:
   If that is not Sensation,
      I don’t know what it is.

   “Now try your hand, ere Fancy
      Have lost its present glow—
   “And then, his grandson added,
      “We’ll publish it, you know:
   Green cloth—gold-lettered at the back—
      In duodecimo!

   Then proudly smiled that old man
      To see the eager lad
   Rush madly for his pen and ink
      And for his blotting-pad—
   But, when he thought of _publishing_,
      His face grew stern and sad.

                  [Picture: His face grew stern and sad]




SIZE AND TEARS


                 [Picture: When on the sandy shore I sit]

   WHEN on the sandy shore I sit,
      Beside the salt sea-wave,
   And fall into a weeping fit
      Because I dare not shave—
   A little whisper at my ear
   Enquires the reason of my fear.

   I answer “If that ruffian Jones
      Should recognise me here,
   He’d bellow out my name in tones
      Offensive to the ear:
   He chaffs me so on being stout
   (A thing that always puts me out).

   Ah me!  I see him on the cliff!
      Farewell, farewell to hope,
   If he should look this way, and if
      He’s got his telescope!
   To whatsoever place I flee,
   My odious rival follows me!

   For every night, and everywhere,
      I meet him out at dinner;
   And when I’ve found some charming fair,
      And vowed to die or win her,
   The wretch (he’s thin and I am stout)
   Is sure to come and cut me out!

                   [Picture: He’s thin and I am stout]

   The girls (just like them!) all agree
      To praise J. Jones, Esquire:
   I ask them what on earth they see
      About him to admire?
   They cry “He is so sleek and slim,
   It’s quite a treat to look at him!

   They vanish in tobacco smoke,
      Those visionary maids—
   I feel a sharp and sudden poke
      Between the shoulder-blades—
   “Why, Brown, my boy!  Your growing stout!
   (I told you he would find me out!)

   “My growth is not _your_ business, Sir!
      “No more it is, my boy!
   But if it’s _yours_, as I infer,
      Why, Brown, I give you joy!
   A man, whose business prospers so,
   Is just the sort of man to know!

   “It’s hardly safe, though, talking here—
      I’d best get out of reach:
   For such a weight as yours, I fear,
      Must shortly sink the beach!—
   Insult me thus because I’m stout!
   I vow I’ll go and call him out!

               [Picture: For such a weight as yours . . .]




ATALANTA IN CAMDEN-TOWN


            Ay, ’twas here, on this spot,
               In that summer of yore,
            Atalanta did not
               Vote my presence a bore,
   Nor reply to my tenderest talk “She had
         heard all that nonsense before.

            She’d the brooch I had bought
               And the necklace and sash on,
            And her heart, as I thought,
               Was alive to my passion;
   And she’d done up her hair in the style that
         the Empress had brought into fashion.

            I had been to the play
               With my pearl of a Peri—
            But, for all I could say,
               She declared she was weary,
   That “the place was so crowded and hot, and
         she couldn’t abide that Dundreary.

                      [Picture: On this spot . . .]

            Then I thought “Lucky boy!
               ’Tis for _you_ that she whimpers!
            And I noted with joy
               Those sensational simpers:
   And I said “This is scrumptious!—a
         phrase I had learned from the Devonshire shrimpers.

            And I vowed “’Twill be said
               I’m a fortunate fellow,
            When the breakfast is spread,
               When the topers are mellow,
   When the foam of the bride-cake is white,
         and the fierce orange-blossoms are yellow!

            O that languishing yawn!
               O those eloquent eyes!
            I was drunk with the dawn
               Of a splendid surmise—
   I was stung by a look, I was slain by a tear,
         by a tempest of sighs.

            Then I whispered “I see
               The sweet secret thou keepest.
            And the yearning for _ME_
               That thou wistfully weepest!
   And the question is License or Banns?’,
         though undoubtedly Banns are the cheapest.

            “Be my Hero, said I,
               “And let _me_ be Leander!
            But I lost her reply—
               Something ending with “gander—
   For the omnibus rattled so loud that no
         mortal could quite understand her.




THE LANG COORTIN’


   The ladye she stood at her lattice high,
      Wi’ her doggie at her feet;
   Thorough the lattice she can spy
      The passers in the street,

   “There’s one that standeth at the door,
      And tirleth at the pin:
   Now speak and say, my popinjay,
      If I sall let him in.

   Then up and spake the popinjay
      That flew abune her head:
   “Gae let him in that tirls the pin:
      He cometh thee to wed.

   O when he cam’ the parlour in,
      A woeful man was he!
   “And dinna ye ken your lover agen,
      Sae well that loveth thee?

                         [Picture: The popinjay]

   “And how wad I ken ye loved me, Sir,
      That have been sae lang away?
   And how wad I ken ye loved me, Sir?
      Ye never telled me sae.

   Said—“Ladye dear, and the salt, salt tear
      Cam’ rinnin’ doon his cheek,
   “I have sent the tokens of my love
      This many and many a week.

   “O didna ye get the rings, Ladye,
      The rings o’ the gowd sae fine?
   I wot that I have sent to thee
      Four score, four score and nine.

   “They cam’ to me, said that fair ladye.
      “Wow, they were flimsie things!
   Said—“that chain o’ gowd, my doggie to howd,
      It is made o’ thae self-same rings.

   “And didna ye get the locks, the locks,
      The locks o’ my ain black hair,
   Whilk I sent by post, whilk I sent by box,
      Whilk I sent by the carrier?

   “They cam’ to me, said that fair ladye;
      “And I prithee send nae mair!
   Said—“that cushion sae red, for my doggie’s head,
      It is stuffed wi’ thae locks o’ hair.

   “And didna ye get the letter, Ladye,
      Tied wi’ a silken string,
   Whilk I sent to thee frae the far countrie,
      A message of love to bring?

   “It cam’ to me frae the far countrie
      Wi’ its silken string and a’;
   But it wasna prepaid, said that high-born maid,
      “Sae I gar’d them tak’ it awa’.

   “O ever alack that ye sent it back,
      It was written sae clerkly and well!
   Now the message it brought, and the boon that it sought,
      I must even say it mysel’.

   Then up and spake the popinjay,
      Sae wisely counselled he.
   “Now say it in the proper way:
      Gae doon upon thy knee!

   The lover he turned baith red and pale,
      Went doon upon his knee:
   “O Ladye, hear the waesome tale
      That must be told to thee!

   “For five lang years, and five lang years,
      I coorted thee by looks;
   By nods and winks, by smiles and tears,
      As I had read in books.

   “For ten lang years, O weary hours!
      I coorted thee by signs;
   By sending game, by sending flowers,
      By sending Valentines.

   “For five lang years, and five lang years,
      I have dwelt in the far countrie,
   Till that thy mind should be inclined
      Mair tenderly to me.

   “Now thirty years are gane and past,
      I am come frae a foreign land:
   I am come to tell thee my love at last—
      O Ladye, gie me thy hand!

   The ladye she turned not pale nor red,
      But she smiled a pitiful smile:
   “Sic’ a coortin’ as yours, my man, she said
      “Takes a lang and a weary while!

               [Picture: And out and laughed the popinjay]

   And out and laughed the popinjay,
      A laugh of bitter scorn:
   “A coortin’ done in sic’ a way,
      It ought not to be borne!

   Wi’ that the doggie barked aloud,
      And up and doon he ran,
   And tugged and strained his chain o’ gowd,
      All for to bite the man.

   “O hush thee, gentle popinjay!
      O hush thee, doggie dear!
   There is a word I fain wad say,
      It needeth he should hear!

   Aye louder screamed that ladye fair
      To drown her doggie’s bark:
   Ever the lover shouted mair
      To make that ladye hark:

   Shrill and more shrill the popinjay
      Upraised his angry squall:
   I trow the doggie’s voice that day
      Was louder than them all!



   The serving-men and serving-maids
      Sat by the kitchen fire:
   They heard sic’ a din the parlour within
      As made them much admire.

   Out spake the boy in buttons
      (I ween he wasna thin),
   “Now wha will tae the parlour gae,
      And stay this deadlie din?

   And they have taen a kerchief,
      Casted their kevils in,
   For wha will tae the parlour gae,
      And stay that deadlie din.

   When on that boy the kevil fell
      To stay the fearsome noise,
   “Gae in, they cried, “whate’er betide,
      Thou prince of button-boys!

   Syne, he has taen a supple cane
      To swinge that dog sae fat:
   The doggie yowled, the doggie howled
      The louder aye for that.

                  [Picture: The doggie ceased his noise]

   Syne, he has taen a mutton-bane—
      The doggie ceased his noise,
   And followed doon the kitchen stair
      That prince of button-boys!

   Then sadly spake that ladye fair,
      Wi’ a frown upon her brow:
   “O dearer to me is my sma’ doggie
      Than a dozen sic’ as thou!

   “Nae use, nae use for sighs and tears:
      Nae use at all to fret:
   Sin’ ye’ve bided sae well for thirty years,
      Ye may bide a wee langer yet!

   Sadly, sadly he crossed the floor
      And tirlëd at the pin:
   Sadly went he through the door
      Where sadly he cam’ in.

   “O gin I had a popinjay
      To fly abune my head,
   To tell me what I ought to say,
      I had by this been wed.

   “O gin I find anither ladye,
      He said wi’ sighs and tears,
   “I wot my coortin’ sall not be
      Anither thirty years

   “For gin I find a ladye gay,
      Exactly to my taste,
   I’ll pop the question, aye or nay,
      In twenty years at maist.

                [Picture: Sadly went he through the door]




FOUR RIDDLES


[THESE consist of two Double Acrostics and two Charades.

No. I. was written at the request of some young friends, who had gone to
a ball at an Oxford Commemoration—and also as a specimen of what might be
done by making the Double Acrostic _a connected poem_ instead of what it
has hitherto been, a string of disjointed stanzas, on every conceivable
subject, and about as interesting to read straight through as a page of a
Cyclopædia.  The first two stanzas describe the two main words, and each
subsequent stanza one of the cross “lights.

No. II. was written after seeing Miss Ellen Terry perform in the play of
“Hamlet.  In this case the first stanza describes the two main words.

No. III. was written after seeing Miss Marion Terry perform in Mr.
Gilbert’s play of “Pygmalion and Galatea.  The three stanzas
respectively describe “My First, “My Second, and “My Whole.]

                                      I

   THERE was an ancient City, stricken down
      With a strange frenzy, and for many a day
   They paced from morn to eve the crowded town,
            And danced the night away.

   I asked the cause: the aged man grew sad:
      They pointed to a building gray and tall,
   And hoarsely answered “Step inside, my lad,
            And then you’ll see it all.

                                * * * * *

   Yet what are all such gaieties to me
      Whose thoughts are full of indices and surds?

   _x_2 + 7_x_ + 53 = 11/3

   But something whispered “It will soon be done:
      Bands cannot always play, nor ladies smile:
   Endure with patience the distasteful fun
            For just a little while!

   A change came o’er my Vision—it was night:
      We clove a pathway through a frantic throng:
   The steeds, wild-plunging, filled us with affright:
            The chariots whirled along.

   Within a marble hall a river ran—
      A living tide, half muslin and half cloth:
   And here one mourned a broken wreath or fan,
            Yet swallowed down her wrath;

   And here one offered to a thirsty fair
      (His words half-drowned amid those thunders tuneful)
   Some frozen viand (there were many there),
            A tooth-ache in each spoonful.

   There comes a happy pause, for human strength
      Will not endure to dance without cessation;
   And every one must reach the point at length
            Of absolute prostration.

   At such a moment ladies learn to give,
      To partners who would urge them over-much,
   A flat and yet decided negative—
            Photographers love such.

   There comes a welcome summons—hope revives,
      And fading eyes grow bright, and pulses quicken:
   Incessant pop the corks, and busy knives
            Dispense the tongue and chicken.

   Flushed with new life, the crowd flows back again:
      And all is tangled talk and mazy motion—
   Much like a waving field of golden grain,
            Or a tempestuous ocean.

   And thus they give the time, that Nature meant
      For peaceful sleep and meditative snores,
   To ceaseless din and mindless merriment
            And waste of shoes and floors.

   And One (we name him not) that flies the flowers,
      That dreads the dances, and that shuns the salads,
   They doom to pass in solitude the hours,
            Writing acrostic-ballads.

   How late it grows!  The hour is surely past
      That should have warned us with its double knock?
   The twilight wanes, and morning comes at last—
            “Oh, Uncle, what’s o’clock?

   The Uncle gravely nods, and wisely winks.
      It _may_ mean much, but how is one to know?
   He opens his mouth—yet out of it, methinks,
            No words of wisdom flow.



II


   EMPRESS of Art, for thee I twine
      This wreath with all too slender skill.
   Forgive my Muse each halting line,
      And for the deed accept the will!

                                * * * * *

   O day of tears!  Whence comes this spectre grim,
      Parting, like Death’s cold river, souls that love?
   Is not he bound to thee, as thou to him,
      By vows, unwhispered here, yet heard above?

   And still it lives, that keen and heavenward flame,
      Lives in his eye, and trembles in his tone:
   And these wild words of fury but proclaim
      A heart that beats for thee, for thee alone!

   But all is lost: that mighty mind o’erthrown,
      Like sweet bells jangled, piteous sight to see!
   “Doubt that the stars are fire, so runs his moan,
      “Doubt Truth herself, but not my love for thee!

   A sadder vision yet: thine aged sire
      Shaming his hoary locks with treacherous wile!
   And dost thou now doubt Truth to be a liar?
      And wilt thou die, that hast forgot to smile?

   Nay, get thee hence!  Leave all thy winsome ways
      And the faint fragrance of thy scattered flowers:
   In holy silence wait the appointed days,
      And weep away the leaden-footed hours.



III.


   THE air is bright with hues of light
      And rich with laughter and with singing:
   Young hearts beat high in ecstasy,
   And banners wave, and bells are ringing:
   But silence falls with fading day,
   And there’s an end to mirth and play.
            Ah, well-a-day

   Rest your old bones, ye wrinkled crones!
      The kettle sings, the firelight dances.
   Deep be it quaffed, the magic draught
   That fills the soul with golden fancies!
   For Youth and Pleasance will not stay,
   And ye are withered, worn, and gray.
            Ah, well-a-day!

   O fair cold face!  O form of grace,
      For human passion madly yearning!
   O weary air of dumb despair,
   From marble won, to marble turning!
   “Leave us not thus! we fondly pray.
   “We cannot let thee pass away!
            Ah, well-a-day!



IV.


   MY First is singular at best:
         More plural is my Second:
   My Third is far the pluralest—
   So plural-plural, I protest
         It scarcely can be reckoned!

   My First is followed by a bird:
         My Second by believers
   In magic art: my simple Third
   Follows, too often, hopes absurd
         And plausible deceivers.

   My First to get at wisdom tries—
         A failure melancholy!
   My Second men revered as wise:
   My Third from heights of wisdom flies
         To depths of frantic folly.

   My First is ageing day by day:
         My Second’s age is ended:
   My Third enjoys an age, they say,
   That never seems to fade away,
         Through centuries extended.

   My Whole?  I need a poet’s pen
         To paint her myriad phases:
   The monarch, and the slave, of men—
   A mountain-summit, and a den
         Of dark and deadly mazes—

   A flashing light—a fleeting shade—
         Beginning, end, and middle
   Of all that human art hath made
   Or wit devised!  Go, seek _her_ aid,
         If you would read my riddle!




FAME’S PENNY-TRUMPET


[Affectionately dedicated to all “original researchers who pant for
“endowment.]

   BLOW, blow your trumpets till they crack,
      Ye little men of little souls!
   And bid them huddle at your back—
      Gold-sucking leeches, shoals on shoals!

   Fill all the air with hungry wails—
      “Reward us, ere we think or write!
   Without your Gold mere Knowledge fails
      To sate the swinish appetite!

   And, where great Plato paced serene,
      Or Newton paused with wistful eye,
   Rush to the chace with hoofs unclean
      And Babel-clamour of the sty

   Be yours the pay: be theirs the praise:
      We will not rob them of their due,
   Nor vex the ghosts of other days
      By naming them along with you.

   They sought and found undying fame:
      They toiled not for reward nor thanks:
   Their cheeks are hot with honest shame
      For you, the modern mountebanks!

   Who preach of Justice—plead with tears
      That Love and Mercy should abound—
   While marking with complacent ears
      The moaning of some tortured hound:

   Who prate of Wisdom—nay, forbear,
      Lest Wisdom turn on you in wrath,
   Trampling, with heel that will not spare,
      The vermin that beset her path!

   Go, throng each other’s drawing-rooms,
      Ye idols of a petty clique:
   Strut your brief hour in borrowed plumes,
      And make your penny-trumpets squeak.

             [Picture: Go, throng each other’s drawing-rooms]

   Deck your dull talk with pilfered shreds
      Of learning from a nobler time,
   And oil each other’s little heads
      With mutual Flattery’s golden slime:

   And when the topmost height ye gain,
      And stand in Glory’s ether clear,
   And grasp the prize of all your pain—
      So many hundred pounds a year—

   Then let Fame’s banner be unfurled!
      Sing Pæans for a victory won!
   Ye tapers, that would light the world,
      And cast a shadow on the Sun—

   Who still shall pour His rays sublime,
      One crystal flood, from East to West,
   When _ye_ have burned your little time
      And feebly flickered into rest!

“You are old, father William,” the young man cried,
“The few locks that are left you are grey;
You are hale, father William, a hearty old man;
Now tell me the reason, I pray.”

“In the days of my youth,” father William replied,
“I remember’d that youth would fly fast,
And abus’d not my health and my vigour at first,
That I never might need them at last.”

You are old, father William,” the young man cried,
“And pleasures with youth pass away,
And yet you lament not the days that are gone;
Now tell me the reason, I pray.”

“In the days of my youth,” father William replied,
“I remember’d that youth could not last;
I thought of the future whatever I did,
That I never might grieve for the past.”

“You are old, father William,” the young man cried,
“And life must be hast’ning away;
You are cheerful and love to converse upon death;
Now tell me the reason, I pray.”

“I am cheerful, young man,” father William replied,
“Let the cause thy attention engage;
In the days of my youth I remember’d my God,
And he hath not forgotten my age.”

He saw her once, and in the glance,
    A moment's glance of meeting eyes,
  His heart stood still in sudden trance:
    He trembled with a sweet surprise--
  All in the waning light she stood,
  The star of perfect womanhood.

  That summer-eve his heart was light:
    With lighter step he trod the ground:
  And life was fairer in his sight,
    And music was in every sound:
  He blessed the world where there could be
  So beautiful a thing as she.

  There once again, as evening fell
    And stars were peering overhead,
  Two lovers met to bid farewell:
    The western sun gleamed faint and red,
  Lost in a drift of purple cloud
  That wrapped him like a funeral-shroud.

  Long time the memory of that night--
    The hand that clasped, the lips that kissed,
  The form that faded from his sight
    Slow sinking through the tearful mist--
  In dreamy music seemed to roll
  Through the dark chambers of his soul.

  So after many years he came
    A wanderer from a distant shore:
  The street, the house, were still the same,
    But those he sought were there no more:
  His burning words, his hopes and fears,
  Unheeded fell on alien ears.

  Only the children from their play
    Would pause the mournful tale to hear,
  Shrinking in half-alarm away,
    Or, step by step, would venture near
  To touch with timid curious hands
  That strange wild man from other lands.

  He sat beside the busy street,
    There, where he last had seen her face:
  And thronging memories, bitter-sweet,
    Seemed yet to haunt the ancient place:
  Her footfall ever floated near:
  Her voice was ever in his ear.

  He sometimes, as the daylight waned
    And evening mists began to roll,
  In half-soliloquy complained
    Of that black shadow on his soul,
  And blindly fanned, with cruel care,
  The ashes of a vain despair.

  The summer fled: the lonely man
    Still lingered out the lessening days;
  Still, as the night drew on, would scan
    Each passing face with closer gaze--
  Till, sick at heart, he turned away,
  And sighed "she will not come to-day."

  So by degrees his spirit bent
    To mock its own despairing cry,
  In stern self-torture to invent
    New luxuries of agony,
  And people all the vacant space
  With visions of her perfect face.

  Then for a moment she was nigh,
    He heard no step, but she was there;
  As if an angel suddenly
    Were bodied from the viewless air,
  And all her fine ethereal frame
  Should fade as swiftly as it came.

  So, half in fancy's sunny trance,
    And half in misery's aching void
  With set and stony countenance
    His bitter being he enjoyed,
  And thrust for ever from his mind
  The happiness he could not find.

  As when the wretch, in lonely room,
    To selfish death is madly hurled,
  The glamour of that fatal fume
    Shuts out the wholesome living world--
  So all his manhood's strength and pride
  One sickly dream had swept aside.

  Yea, brother, and we passed him there,
    But yesterday, in merry mood,
  And marveled at the lordly air
    That shamed his beggar's attitude,
  Nor heeded that ourselves might be
  Wretches as desperate as he;

  Who let the thought of bliss denied
    Make havoc of our life and powers,
  And pine, in solitary pride,
    For peace that never shall be ours,
  Because we will not work and wait
  In trustful patience for our fate.

  And so it chanced once more that she
    Came by the old familiar spot:
  The face he would have died to see
    Bent o'er him, and he knew it not;
  Too rapt in selfish grief to hear,
  Even when happiness was near.

  And pity filled her gentle breast
    For him that would not stir nor speak
  The dying crimson of the west,
    That faintly tinged his haggard cheek,
  Fell on her as she stood, and shed
  A glory round the patient head.

  Ah, let him wake! The moments fly:
    This awful tryst may be the last.
  And see, the tear, that dimmed her eye,
    Had fallen on him ere she passed--
  She passed: the crimson paled to gray:
  And hope departed with the day.

  The heavy hours of night went by,
    And silence quickened into sound,
  And light slid up the eastern sky,
    And life began its daily round--
  But light and life for him were fled:
  His name was numbered with the dead.

_Nov., 1861._


[Illustration]




THE PATH OF ROSES.


  In the dark silence of an ancient room,
  Whose one tall window fronted to the West,
  Where, through laced tendrils of a hanging vine,
  The sunset-glow was fading into night,
  Sat a pale Lady, resting weary hands
  Upon a great clasped volume, and her face
  Within her hands. Not as in rest she bowed,
  But large hot tears were coursing down her cheek,
  And her low-panted sobs broke awefully
  Upon the sleeping echoes of the night.
    Soon she unclasp'd the volume once again,
  And read the words in tone of agony,
  As in self-torture, weeping as she read:--

  _"He crowns the glory of his race:
  He prayeth but in some fit place
  To meet his foeman face to face:

  "And, battling for the True, the Right,
  From ruddy dawn to purple night,
  To perish in the midmost fight:

  "Where hearts are fierce and hands are strong,
  Where peals the bugle loud and long,
  Where blood is dropping in the throng:

  "Still, with a dim and glazing eye,
  To watch the tide of victory,
  To hear in death the battle-cry:

  "Then, gathered grandly to his grave,
  To rest among the true and brave,
  In holy ground, where yew-trees wave:

  "Where, from church-windows sculptured fair,
  Float out upon the evening air
  The note of praise, the voice of prayer:

  "Where no vain marble mockery
  Insults with loud and boastful lie
  The simple soldier's memory:

  "Where sometimes little children go,
  And read, in whisper'd accent slow,
  The name of him who sleeps below."_

  Her voice died out: like one in dreams she sat.
  "Alas!" she sighed. "For what can Woman do?
  Her life is aimless, and her death unknown:
  Hemmed in by social forms she pines in vain.
  Man has his work, but what can Woman do?"
    And answer came there from the creeping gloom,
  The creeping gloom that settled into night:
  "Peace! For thy lot is other than a man's:
  His is a path of thorns: he beats them down:
  He faces death: he wrestles with despair.
  Thine is of roses, to adorn and cheer
  His lonely life, and hide the thorns in flowers."
    She spake again: in bitter tone she spake:
  "Aye, as a toy, the puppet of an hour,
  Or a fair posy, newly plucked at morn,
  But flung aside and withered ere the night."
    And answer came there from the creeping gloom,
  The creeping gloom that blackened into night:
  "So shalt thou be the lamp to light his path,
  What time the shades of sorrow close around."
    And, so it seemed to her, an awful light
  Pierced slowly through the darkness, orbed, and grew,
  Until all passed away--the ancient room--
  The sunlight dying through the trellised vine--
  The one tall window--all had passed away,
  And she was standing on the mighty hills.
    Beneath, around, and far as eye could see,
  Squadron on squadron, stretched opposing hosts,
  Ranked as for battle, mute and motionless.
  Anon a distant thunder shook the ground,
  The tramp of horses, and a troop shot by--
  Plunged headlong in that living sea of men--
  Plunged to their death: back from that fatal field
  A scattered handful, fighting hard for life,
  Broke through the serried lines; but, as she gazed,
  They shrank and melted, and their forms grew thin--
  Grew pale as ghosts when the first morning ray
  Dawns from the East--the trumpet's brazen blare
  Died into silence--and the vision passed--
  Passed to a room where sick and dying lay
  In long, sad line--there brooded Fear and Pain--
  Darkness was there, the shade of Azrael's wing.
  But there was one that ever, to and fro,
  Moved with light footfall: purely calm her face,
  And those deep steadfast eyes that starred the gloom:
  Still, as she went, she ministered to each
  Comfort and counsel; cooled the fevered brow
  With softest touch, and in the listening ear
  Of the pale sufferer whispered words of peace.
  The dying warrior, gazing as she passed,
  Clasped his thin hands and blessed her. Bless her too,
  Thou, who didst bless the merciful of old!
    So prayed the Lady, watching tearfully
  Her gentle moving onward, till the night
  Had veiled her wholly, and the vision passed.
    Then once again the solemn whisper came:
  "So in the darkest path of man's despair,
  Where War and Terror shake the troubled earth,
  Lies woman's mission; with unblenching brow
  To pass through scenes of horror and affright
  Where men grow sick and tremble: unto her
  All things are sanctified, for all are good.
  Nothing so mean, but shall deserve her care:
  Nothing so great, but she may bear her part.
  No life is vain: each hath his place assigned:
  Do thou thy task, and leave the rest to God."
  And there was silence, but the Lady made
  No answer, save one deeply-breathed "Amen."
    And she arose, and in that darkening room
  Stood lonely as a spirit of the night--
  Stood calm and fearless in the gathered night--
  And raised her eyes to heaven. There were tears
  Upon her face, but in her heart was peace,
  Peace that the world nor gives nor takes away!

_April 10, 1856._


[Illustration]




THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW OF DEATH.


  Hark, _said the dying man_, _and sighed_,
      To that complaining tone--
  Like sprite condemned, each eventide,
      To walk the world alone.
  At sunset, when the air is still,
  I hear it creep from yonder hill:
  It breathes upon me, dead and chill,
      A moment, and is gone.

  My son, it minds me of a day
      Left half a life behind,
  That I have prayed to put away
      For ever from my mind.
  But bitter memory will not die:
  It haunts my soul when none is nigh:
  I hear its whisper in the sigh
      Of that complaining wind.

  And now in death my soul is fain
      To tell the tale of fear
  That hidden in my breast hath lain
      Through many a weary year:
  Yet time would fail to utter all--
  The evil spells that held me thrall,
  And thrust my life from fall to fall,
      Thou needest not to hear.

  The spells that bound me with a chain,
      Sin's stern behests to do,
  Till Pleasure's self, invoked in vain,
      A heavy burden grew--
  Till from my spirit's fevered eye,
  A hunted thing, I seemed to fly
  Through the dark woods that underlie
      Yon mountain-range of blue.

  Deep in those woods I found a vale
      No sunlight visiteth,
  Nor star, nor wandering moonbeam pale;
      Where never comes the breath
  Of summer-breeze--there in mine ear,
  Even as I lingered half in fear,
  I heard a whisper, cold and clear,
      "This is the gate of Death.

  "O bitter is it to abide
      In weariness alway:
  At dawn to sigh for eventide,
      At eventide for day.
  Thy noon hath fled: thy sun hath shone.
  The brightness of thy day is gone:
  What need to lag and linger on
      Till life be cold and gray?

  "O well," it said, "beneath yon pool,
      In some still cavern deep,
  The fevered brain might slumber cool,
      The eyes forget to weep:
  Within that goblet's mystic rim
  Are draughts of healing, stored for him
  Whose heart is sick, whose sight is dim,
      Who prayeth but to sleep!"

  The evening-breeze went moaning by,
      Like mourner for the dead,
  And stirred, with shrill complaining sigh,
      The tree-tops overhead:
  My guardian-angel seemed to stand
  And mutely wave a warning hand--
  With sudden terror all unmanned,
      I turned myself and fled!

  A cottage-gate stood open wide:
      Soft fell the dying ray
  On two fair children, side by side,
      That rested from their play--
  Together bent the earnest head,
  As ever and anon they read
  From one dear Book: the words they said
      Come back to me to-day.

  Like twin cascades on mountain-stair
      Together wandered down
  The ripples of the golden hair,
      The ripples of the brown:
  While, through the tangled silken haze,
  Blue eyes looked forth in eager gaze,
  More starlike than the gems that blaze
      About a monarch's crown.

  My son, there comes to each an hour
      When sinks the spirit's pride--
  When weary hands forget their power
      The strokes of death to guide:
  In such a moment, warriors say,
  A word the panic-rout may stay,
  A sudden charge redeem the day
      And turn the living tide.

  I could not see, for blinding tears,
      The glories of the west:
  A heavenly music filled mine ears,
      A heavenly peace my breast.
  "Come unto Me, come unto Me--
  All ye that labour, unto Me--
  Ye heavy-laden, come to Me--
      And I will give you rest."

  The night drew onward: thin and blue
      The evening mists arise
  To bathe the thirsty land in dew,
      As erst in Paradise--
  While, over silent field and town,
  The deep blue vault of heaven looked down;
  Not, as of old, in angry frown,
      But bright with angels' eyes.

  Blest day! Then first I heard the voice
      That since hath oft beguiled
  These eyes from tears, and bid rejoice
      This heart with anguish wild--
  Thy mother, boy, thou hast not known;
  So soon she left me here to moan--
  Left me to weep and watch, alone,
      Our one beloved child.

  Though, parted from my aching sight,
      Like homeward-speeding dove,
  She passed into the perfect light
      That floods the world above;
  Yet our twin spirits, well I know--
  Though one abide in pain below--
  Love, as in summers long ago,
      And evermore shall love.

  So with a glad and patient heart
      I move toward mine end:
  The streams, that flow awhile apart,
      Shall both in ocean blend.
  I dare not weep: I can but bless
  The Love that pitied my distress,
  And lent me, in Life's wilderness,
      So sweet and true a friend.

  But if there be--O if there be
      A truth in what they say,
  That angel-forms we cannot see
      Go with us on our way;
  Then surely she is with me here,
  I dimly feel her spirit near--
  The morning-mists grow thin and clear,
      And Death brings in the Day.

_April, 1868._


[Illustration]




SOLITUDE.


  I love the stillness of the wood:
    I love the music of the rill:
  I love to couch in pensive mood
        Upon some silent hill.

  Scarce heard, beneath yon arching trees,
    The silver-crested ripples pass;
  And, like a mimic brook, the breeze
        Whispers among the grass.

  Here from the world I win release,
    Nor scorn of men, nor footstep rude,
  Break in to mar the holy peace
        Of this great solitude.

  Here may the silent tears I weep
    Lull the vexed spirit into rest,
  As infants sob themselves to sleep
        Upon a mother's breast.

  But when the bitter hour is gone,
    And the keen throbbing pangs are still,
  Oh sweetest then to couch alone
        Upon some silent hill!

  To live in joys that once have been,
    To put the cold world out of sight,
  And deck life's drear and barren scene
        With hues of rainbow-light.

  For what to man the gift of breath,
    If sorrow be his lot below;
  If all the day that ends in death
        Be dark with clouds of woe?

  Shall the poor transport of an hour
    Repay long years of sore distress--
  The fragrance of a lonely flower
        Make glad the wilderness?

  Ye golden hours of Life's young spring,
    Of innocence, of love and truth!
  Bright, beyond all imagining,
        Thou fairy-dream of youth!

  I'd give all wealth that years have piled,
    The slow result of Life's decay,
  To be once more a little child
        For one bright summer-day.

_March 16, 1853._




FAR AWAY.


  He stept so lightly to the land,
      All in his manly pride:
  He kissed her cheek, he clasped her hand;
      Yet still she glanced aside.
  "Too gay he seems," she darkly dreams,
      "Too gallant and too gay,
  To think of me--poor simple me--
      When he is far away!"

  "I bring my Love this goodly pearl
      Across the seas," he said:
  "A gem to deck the dearest girl
      That ever sailor wed!"
  She holds it tight: her eyes are bright:
      Her throbbing heart would say
  "He thought of me--he thought of me--
      When he was far away!"

  The ship has sailed into the West:
      Her ocean-bird is flown:
  A dull dead pain is in her breast,
      And she is weak and lone:
  But there's a smile upon her face,
      A smile that seems to say
  "He'll think of me--he'll think of me--
      When he is far away!

  "Though waters wide between us glide,
      Our lives are warm and near:
  No distance parts two faithful hearts--
      Two hearts that love so dear:
  And I will trust my sailor-lad,
      For ever and a day,
  To think of me--to think of me--
      When he is far away!"


[Illustration]




BEATRICE.


  In her eyes is the living light
    Of a wanderer to earth
  From a far celestial height:
      Summers five are all the span--
      Summers five since Time began
  To veil in mists of human night
    A shining angel-birth.

  Does an angel look from her eyes?
    Will she suddenly spring away,
  And soar to her home in the skies?
      Beatrice! Blessing and blessed to be!
      Beatrice! Still, as I gaze on thee,
  Visions of two sweet maids arise,
    Whose life was of yesterday:

  Of a Beatrice pale and stern,
    With the lips of a dumb despair,
  With the innocent eyes that yearn--
      Yearn for the young sweet hours of life,
      Far from sorrow and far from strife,
  For the happy summers, that never return,
    When the world seemed good and fair:

  Of a Beatrice glorious, bright--
    Of a sainted, ethereal maid,
  Whose blue eyes are deep fountains of light,
      Cheering the poet that broodeth apart,
      Filling with gladness his desolate heart,
  Like the moon when she shines thro' a cloudless night
    On a world of silence and shade.

  And the visions waver and faint,
    And the visions vanish away
  That my fancy delighted to paint--
      She is here at my side, a living child,
      With the glowing cheek and the tresses wild,
  Nor death-pale martyr, nor radiant saint,
    Yet stainless and bright as they.

  For I think, if a grim wild beast
    Were to come from his charnel-cave,
  From his jungle-home in the East--
      Stealthily creeping with bated breath,
      Stealthily creeping with eyes of death--
  He would all forget his dream of the feast,
    And crouch at her feet a slave.

  She would twine her hand in his mane:
    She would prattle in silvery tone,
  Like the tinkle of summer-rain--
      Questioning him with her laughing eyes,
      Questioning him with a glad surprise,
  Till she caught from those fierce eyes again
    The love that lit her own.

  And be sure, if a savage heart,
    In a mask of human guise,
  Were to come on her here apart--
      Bound for a dark and a deadly deed,
      Hurrying past with pitiless speed--
  He would suddenly falter and guiltily start
    At the glance of her pure blue eyes.

  Nay, be sure, if an angel fair,
    A bright seraph undefiled,
  Were to stoop from the trackless air,
      Fain would she linger in glad amaze--
      Lovingly linger to ponder and gaze,
  With a sister's love and a sister's care,
    On the happy, innocent child.

_Dec. 4, 1862._


[Illustration]




STOLEN WATERS.


  The light was faint, and soft the air
        That breathed around the place;
  And she was lithe, and tall, and fair,
        And with a wayward grace
        Her queenly head she bare.

  With glowing cheek, with gleaming eye,
        She met me on the way:
  My spirit owned the witchery
        Within her smile that lay:
  I followed her, I knew not why.

  The trees were thick with many a fruit,
        The grass with many a flower:
  My soul was dead, my tongue was mute,
        In that accursëd hour.

  And, in my dream, with silvery voice,
        She said, or seemed to say,
  "Youth is the season to rejoice--"
        I could not choose but stay:
        I could not say her nay.

  She plucked a branch above her head,
        With rarest fruitage laden:
  "Drink of the juice, Sir Knight," she said:
        "'Tis good for knight and maiden."

  Oh, blind mine eye that would not trace--
    Oh, deaf mine ear that would not heed--
  The mocking smile upon her face,
        The mocking voice of greed!

  I drank the juice; and straightway felt
        A fire within my brain:
  My soul within me seemed to melt
        In sweet delirious pain.

  "Sweet is the stolen draught," she said:
        "Hath sweetness stint or measure?
  Pleasant the secret hoard of bread:
        What bars us from our pleasure?"

  "Yea, take we pleasure while we may,"
        I heard myself replying.
  In the red sunset, far away,
        My happier life was dying:
  My heart was sad, my voice was gay.

  And unawares, I knew not how,
    I kissed her dainty finger-tips,
  I kissed her on the lily brow,
    I kissed her on the false, false lips--
  That burning kiss, I feel it now!

  "True love gives true love of the best:
    Then take," I cried, "my heart to thee!"
  The very heart from out my breast
    I plucked, I gave it willingly:
    Her very heart she gave to me--
  Then died the glory from the west.

  In the gray light I saw her face,
    And it was withered, old, and gray;
  The flowers were fading in their place,
    Were fading with the fading day.

  Forth from her, like a hunted deer,
    Through all that ghastly night I fled,
  And still behind me seemed to hear
        Her fierce unflagging tread;
  And scarce drew breath for fear.

  Yet marked I well how strangely seemed
    The heart within my breast to sleep:
  Silent it lay, or so I dreamed,
        With never a throb or leap.

  For hers was now my heart, she said,
    The heart that once had been mine own:
  And in my breast I bore instead
        A cold, cold heart of stone.
  So grew the morning overhead.

  The sun shot downward through the trees
        His old familiar flame:
  All ancient sounds upon the breeze
        From copse and meadow came--
        But I was not the same.

  They call me mad: I smile, I weep,
        Uncaring how or why:
  Yea, when one's heart is laid asleep,
        What better than to die?
  So that the grave be dark and deep.

  To die! To die? And yet, methinks,
        I drink of life, to-day,
  Deep as the thirsty traveler drinks
        Of fountain by the way:
  My voice is sad, my heart is gay.

  When yestereve was on the wane,
        I heard a clear voice singing
  So sweetly that, like summer-rain,
        My happy tears came springing:
  My human heart returned again.

        _"A rosy child,
  Sitting and singing, in a garden fair,
      The joy of hearing, seeing,
      The simple joy of being--
  Or twining rosebuds in the golden hair
      That ripples free and wild.

        "A sweet pale child--
  Wearily looking to the purple West--
      Waiting the great For-ever
      That suddenly shall sever
  The cruel chains that hold her from her rest--
      By earth-joys unbeguiled.

        "An angel-child--
  Gazing with living eyes on a dead face:
      The mortal form forsaken,
      That none may now awaken,
  That lieth painless, moveless in her place,
      As though in death she smiled!

        "Be as a child--
  So shalt thou sing for very joy of breath--
      So shalt thou wait thy dying,
      In holy transport lying--
  So pass rejoicing through the gate of death,
      In garment undefiled."_

  Then call me what they will, I know
        That now my soul is glad:
  If this be madness, better so,
        Far better to be mad,
  Weeping or smiling as I go.

  For if I weep, it is that now
    I see how deep a loss is mine,
  And feel how brightly round my brow
        The coronal might shine,
  Had I but kept mine early vow:

  And if I smile, it is that now
    I see the promise of the years--
  The garland waiting for my brow,
        That must be won with tears,
  With pain--with death--I care not how.

_May 9, 1862._


[Illustration]




THE WILLOW-TREE.


  The morn was bright, the steeds were light,
      The wedding guests were gay:
  Young Ellen stood within the wood
      And watched them pass away.
  She scarcely saw the gallant train:
      The tear-drop dimmed her ee:
  Unheard the maiden did complain
      Beneath the Willow-Tree.

  "Oh Robin, thou didst love me well,
      Till, on a bitter day,
  She came, the Lady Isabel,
      And stole thy heart away.
  My tears are vain: I live again
      In days that used to be,
  When I could meet thy welcome feet
      Beneath the Willow-Tree.

  "Oh Willow gray, I may not stay
      Till Spring renew thy leaf;
  But I will hide myself away,
      And nurse a lonely grief.
  It shall not dim Life's joy for him:
      My tears he shall not see:
  While he is by, I'll come not nigh
      My weeping Willow-Tree.

  "But when I die, oh let me lie
      Beneath thy loving shade,
  That he may loiter careless by,
      Where I am lowly laid.
  And let the white white marble tell,
      If he should stoop to see,
  'Here lies a maid that loved thee well,
      Beneath the Willow-Tree.'"

1859.




ONLY A WOMAN'S HAIR.


  'Only a woman's hair'! Fling it aside!
    A bubble on Life's mighty stream:
  Heed it not, man, but watch the broadening tide
        Bright with the western beam.

  Nay! In those words there rings from other years
    The echo of a long low cry,
  Where a proud spirit wrestles with its tears
        In loneliest agony.

  And, as I touch that lock, strange visions throng
    Upon my soul with dreamy grace--
  Of woman's hair, the theme of poet's song
        In every time and place.

  A child's bright tresses, by the breezes kissed
    To sweet disorder as she flies,
  Veiling, beneath a cloud of golden mist,
        Flushed cheek and laughing eyes--

  Or fringing, like a shadow, raven-black,
    The glory of a queen-like face--
  Or from a gipsy's sunny brow tossed back
        In wild and wanton grace--

  Or crown-like on the hoary head of Age,
    Whose tale of life is well-nigh told--
  Or, last, in dreams I make my pilgrimage
        To Bethany of old.

  I see the feast--the purple and the gold--
    The gathering crowd of Pharisees,
  Whose scornful eyes are centred to behold
        Yon woman on her knees.

  The stifled sob rings strangely on mine ears,
    Wrung from the depth of sin's despair:
  And still she bathes the sacred feet with tears,
        And wipes them with her hair.

  He scorned not then the simple loving deed
    Of her, the lowest and the last;
  Then scorn not thou, but use with earnest heed
        This relic of the past.

  The eyes that loved it once no longer wake:
    So lay it by with reverent care--
  Touching it tenderly for sorrow's sake--
        It is a woman's hair.

_Feb. 17, 1862._


[Illustration]




THE SAILOR'S WIFE.


  See! There are tears upon her face--
    Tears newly shed, and scarcely dried:
  Close, in an agonised embrace,
    She clasps the infant at her side.

  Peace dwells in those soft-lidded eyes,
    Those parted lips that faintly smile--
  Peace, the foretaste of Paradise,
    In heart too young for care or guile.

  No peace that mother's features wear;
    But quivering lip, and knotted brow,
  And broken mutterings, all declare
    The fearful dream that haunts her now.

  The storm-wind, rushing through the sky,
    Wails from the depths of cloudy space;
  Shrill, piercing as the seaman's cry
    When death and he are face to face.

  Familiar tones are in the gale:
    They ring upon her startled ear:
  And quick and low she pants the tale
    That tells of agony and fear:

  "Still that phantom-ship is nigh--
    With a vexed and life-like motion,
  All beneath an angry sky,
    Rocking on an angry ocean.

  "Round the straining mast and shrouds
    Throng the spirits of the storm:
  Darkly seen through driving clouds,
    Bends each gaunt and ghastly form.

  "See! The good ship yields at last!
    Dumbly yields, and fights no more;
  Driving, in the frantic blast,
    Headlong on the fatal shore.

  "Hark! I hear her battered side,
    With a low and sullen shock,
  Dashed, amid the foaming tide,
    Full upon a sunken rock.

  "His face shines out against the sky,
    Like a ghost, so cold and white;
  With a dead despairing eye
    Gazing through the gathered night.

  "Is he watching, through the dark
    Where a mocking ghostly hand
  Points a faint and feeble spark
    Glimmering from the distant land?

  "Sees he, in this hour of dread,
    Hearth and home and wife and child?
  Loved ones who, in summers fled,
    Clung to him and wept and smiled?

  "Reeling sinks the fated bark
    To her tomb beneath the wave:
  Must he perish in the dark--
    Not a hand stretched out to save?

  "See the spirits, how they crowd!
    Watching death with eyes that burn!
  Waves rush in----" she shrieks aloud,
    Ere her waking sense return.

  The storm is gone: the skies are clear:
    Hush'd is that bitter cry of pain:
  The only sound, that meets her ear,
    The heaving of the sullen main.

  Though heaviness endure the night,
    Yet joy shall come with break of day:
  She shudders with a strange delight--
    The fearful dream is pass'd away.

  She wakes: the grey dawn streaks the dark:
    With early song the copses ring:
  Far off she hears the watch-dog bark
    A joyful bark of welcoming!

_Feb. 23, 1857._


[Illustration]




AFTER THREE DAYS.


      I stood within the gate
  Of a great temple, 'mid the living stream
  Of worshipers that thronged its regal state
      Fair-pictured in my dream.

      Jewels and gold were there;
  And floors of marble lent a crystal sheen
  To body forth, as in a lower air,
      The wonders of the scene.

      Such wild and lavish grace
  Had whispers in it of a coming doom;
  As richest flowers lie strown about the face
      Of her that waits the tomb.

      The wisest of the land
  Had gathered there, three solemn trysting-days,
  For high debate: men stood on either hand
      To listen and to gaze.

      The aged brows were bent,
  Bent to a frown, half thought, and half annoy,
  That all their stores of subtlest argument
      Were baffled by a boy.

      In each averted face
  I marked but scorn and loathing, till mine eyes
  Fell upon one that stirred not in his place,
      Tranced in a dumb surprise.

      Surely within his mind
  Strange thoughts are born, until he doubts the lore
  Of those old men, blind leaders of the blind,
      Whose kingdom is no more.

      Surely he sees afar
  A day of death the stormy future brings;
  The crimson setting of the herald-star
      That led the Eastern kings.

      Thus, as a sunless deep
  Mirrors the shining heights that crown the bay,
  So did my soul create anew in sleep
      The picture seen by day.

      Gazers came and went--
  A restless hum of voices marked the spot--
  In varying shades of critic discontent
      Prating they knew not what.

      "Where is the comely limb,
  The form attuned in every perfect part,
  The beauty that we should desire in him?"
      Ah! Fools and slow of heart!

      Look into those deep eyes,
  Deep as the grave, and strong with love divine;
  Those tender, pure, and fathomless mysteries,
      That seem to pierce through thine.

      Look into those deep eyes,
  Stirred to unrest by breath of coming strife,
  Until a longing in thy soul arise
      That this indeed were life:

      That thou couldst find Him there,
  Bend at His sacred feet thy willing knee,
  And from thy heart pour out the passionate prayer
      "Lord, let me follow Thee!"

      But see the crowd divide:
  Mother and sire have found their lost one now:
  The gentle voice, that fain would seem to chide
      Whispers "Son, why hast thou"--

      In tone of sad amaze--
  "Thus dealt with us, that art our dearest thing?
  Behold, thy sire and I, three weary days,
      Have sought thee sorrowing."

      And I had stayed to hear
  The loving words "How is it that ye sought?"--
  But that the sudden lark, with matins clear,
      Severed the links of thought.

      Then over all there fell
  Shadow and silence; and my dream was fled,
  As fade the phantoms of a wizard's cell
      When the dark charm is said.

      Yet, in the gathering light,
  I lay with half-shut eyes that would not wake,
  Lovingly clinging to the skirts of night
      For that sweet vision's sake.

_Feb. 16, 1861._


[Illustration]




FACES IN THE FIRE.


  The night creeps onward, sad and slow:
  In these red embers' dying glow
  The forms of Fancy come and go.

  An island-farm--broad seas of corn
  Stirred by the wandering breath of morn--
  The happy spot where I was born.

  The picture fadeth in its place:
  Amid the glow I seem to trace
  The shifting semblance of a face.

  'Tis now a little childish form--
  Red lips for kisses pouted warm--
  And elf-locks tangled in the storm.

  'Tis now a grave and gentle maid,
  At her own beauty half afraid,
  Shrinking, and willing to be stayed.

  Oh, Time was young, and Life was warm,
  When first I saw that fairy-form,
  Her dark hair tossing in the storm.

  And fast and free these pulses played,
  When last I met that gentle maid--
  When last her hand in mine was laid.

  Those locks of jet are turned to gray,
  And she is strange and far away
  That might have been mine own to-day--

  That might have been mine own, my dear,
  Through many and many a happy year--
  That might have sat beside me here.

  Ay, changeless through the changing scene,
  The ghostly whisper rings between,
  The dark refrain of 'might have been.'

  The race is o'er I might have run:
  The deeds are past I might have done;
  And sere the wreath I might have won.

  Sunk is the last faint flickering blaze:
  The vision of departed days
  Is vanished even as I gaze.

  The pictures, with their ruddy light,
  Are changed to dust and ashes white,
  And I am left alone with night.

_Jan., 1860._


[Illustration]




A LESSON IN LATIN.


  Our Latin books, in motley row,
      Invite us to our task--
  Gay Horace, stately Cicero:
  Yet there's one verb, when once we know,
      No higher skill we ask:
  This ranks all other lore above--
  We've learned "'_Amare_' means '_to love_'!"

  So, hour by hour, from flower to flower,
      We sip the sweets of Life:
  Till, all too soon, the clouds arise,
  And flaming cheeks and flashing eyes
      Proclaim the dawn of strife:
  With half a smile and half a sigh,
  "_Amare! Bitter One!_" we cry.

  Last night we owned, with looks forlorn,
      "Too well the scholar knows
  There is no rose without a thorn"--
  But peace is made! We sing, this morn,
      "No thorn without a rose!"
  Our Latin lesson is complete:
  We've learned that Love is Bitter-Sweet!

_May, 1888._




PUCK LOST AND FOUND.


  Puck has fled the haunts of men:
    Ridicule has made him wary:
  In the woods, and down the glen,
        No one meets a Fairy!

  "Cream!" the greedy Goblin cries--
    Empties the deserted dairy--
  Steals the spoons, and off he flies.
        Still we seek our Fairy!

  Ah! What form is entering?
    Lovelit eyes and laughter airy!
  Is not this a better thing,
  Child, whose visit thus I sing,
        Even than a Fairy?

_Nov. 22, 1891._

  Puck has ventured back agen:
    Ridicule no more affrights him:
  In the very haunts of men
        Newer sport delights him.

  Capering lightly to and fro,
    Ever frolicking and funning--
  "Crack!" the mimic pistols go!
        Hark! The noise is stunning!

  All too soon will Childhood gay
    Realise Life's sober sadness.
  Let's be merry while we may,
  Innocent and happy Fay!
        Elves were made for gladness!

_Nov. 25, 1891._


[Illustration]




A SONG OF LOVE.


  Say, what is the spell, when her fledgelings are cheeping,
        That lures the bird home to her nest?
  Or wakes the tired mother, whose infant is weeping,
        To cuddle and croon it to rest?
  What the magic that charms the glad babe in her arms,
        Till it cooes with the voice of the dove?
  'Tis a secret, and so let us whisper it low--
        And the name of the secret is Love!
              For I think it is Love,
              For I feel it is Love,
        For I'm sure it is nothing but Love!

  Say, whence is the voice that, when anger is burning,
        Bids the whirl of the tempest to cease?
  That stirs the vexed soul with an aching--a yearning
        For the brotherly hand-grip of peace?
  Whence the music that fills all our being--that thrills
        Around us, beneath, and above?
  'Tis a secret: none knows how it comes, how it goes--
        But the name of the secret is Love!
              For I think it is Love,
              For I feel it is Love,
        For I'm sure it is nothing but Love!

  Say, whose is the skill that paints valley and hill,
        Like a picture so fair to the sight?
  That flecks the green meadow with sunshine and shadow,
        Till the little lambs leap with delight?
  'Tis a secret untold to hearts cruel and cold,
        Though 'tis sung, by the angels above,
  In notes that ring clear for the ears that can hear--
        And the name of the secret is Love!
              For I think it is Love,
              For I feel it is Love,
        For I'm sure it is nothing but Love!
